If I had to buy something, I would
rather buy stocks rather than buy bonds.
>> I think the investment for AI has to
take place now.
>> AI models are so powerful, driving so
much demand that we do expect them to
grow into next year.
>> What you see going forward though from
the four hyperscalers is clearly more
spending.
>> The AI race continues. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, the boom is over.
Earnings from Nvidia underwhelming,
forecasting a deceleration in growth.
The tech giant failing to record any
sales of its H20 chip to customers in
China as the CFO cautions the plan to
pay the White House 15% of its revenue
there hasn't been formalized.
>> So here's the question with Nvidia's
performance. On one hand you could say
it's deceleration from this sort of
moonshot that we had seen and it really
raises questions about its valuation.
But as you can see from the market
reaction where you see these shares down
less than 2% after more than a 35% rally
so far this year. A lot of people are
shrugging this off as maybe just
underestimating how much revenue they
could ultimately take from China and a
China story more than some sort of end
of the AI boom type of narrative.
>> China in focus. Morgan Stanley saying
this, China remains impossible to
forecast.
>> What you can see from these earnings
results is basically how challenging it
is to guide when you are dealing with on
andoff policy out of Washington DC. And
I think for Nvidia, it's so delicate the
situation. The downside, only a select
number of Chinese firms are able to get
those licenses for the H20, but none
have been shipped. The upside, Jensen
Wang talking about potentially this idea
of selling the Blackwell chip, talking
about basically lobbying the White House
for it. There could be tremendous
upside, but at the moment they are not
raking it in. And when it comes to that
15%, Jonathan, subject to litigation,
increase our cost and harm our
competitive position and benefit
competitors with this kind of
arrangement. So it's not all rosy at the
moment between the sweet sea suite and
the oval office.
>> As Lisa said, the stock is only down by
about 2%. The broader market unchanged.
This is a change. How dependent are we
on the gains from one stock anymore? If
you look elsewhere in the equity market,
banks at record highs, home builders
rallying so far this month. Cyclical
parts of the equity market holding up.
>> Yeah, this idea of a broadening out in
the rally. And it wasn't necessarily
because AI is trickling out into all
parts of our economy. It's because guess
what? Suddenly people are counting on
rates going lower and they're counting
on a more accommodative stance from
Federal Reserve officials and given that
a lot of people are looking at small
caps. We saw this particularly late last
week. They're looking at the rest of the
market and they're saying okay we are
ready for a boom and that seems to be
reflected in the market.
>> It's good to have you backed
completely rested from the bears. So I
guess that the bears did not get the
dominance over this and I will say I had
to come back. It was Nvidia. It was a
5-year auction yesterday that was tepid.
I mean had to clearly get back on my
feet.
>> Brought you back in.
>> I mean it was just absolutely
compelling.
>> It's good to see you. Coming up this
hour more from Brammo plus Keith Learner
of Truist. The stocks look for a third
day of gains. Dan Ives of Wed Bush
breaking down results from Nvidia and El
Davis of Beimo on the risk building in
the bond market. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing higher after shrugging
off a lukewarm forecast from Nvidia.
Keith Lerner, the chief market
strategist at Truist writing the
following. We still like tech longer
term, but the rubber band became
stretched too far and in need of a
digestion period. This will likely lead
to some further rotation. Keith joins us
now for more. Keith, welcome to the
program, buddy. It's got to catch up.
Just how dependent are we on this single
name. Based on the price action this
morning, maybe not that much.
>> Yeah, well, great to be with you on uh
Nvidia day. Uh for the broadband based
market, I mean, it's still somewhat
important since it's 8% and it's a big
driver of overall tech, which is a big
driver of the overall market. But I
think you know so far if you're bullish
on this market you got to be somewhat
happy that uh the market's relatively
flat and really Nvidia is trading back
to where it was last Friday and you know
this market is a lot about expectations
right markets are always about
expectations we talk about that rubber
band from the uh the lows in April you
know the S&P is up 30%. Um the the tech
sector is up about 50 and Nvidia was up
almost 100. So in our view, you know,
expectations are just somewhat elevated
and it needs a digestion period. Longer
term, we're still bullish on technology.
We're still bullish on the AI theme, but
I do think as we're seeing this morning,
you take a little bit out of some of
these big cap stocks into like say small
caps, which are a bit up this morning a
bit. Uh it doesn't take much. I mean, we
all know that Nvidia by itself is bigger
than the entire small cap index.
>> Well, let's talk about what's happening
with the small caps, Keith. We're seeing
a pickup. We're seeing a pickup in the
home builders so far in August. bank
stocks at all-time highs. Keith, we're
expecting a shift in the rate regime. Do
you think that shift in the rate regime
leads to a shift in leadership?
>> Yes, I think it's one component of it.
Um, again, I want to be clear longer
term, we still think the dominant theme
remains with AI, but on a shortterm
basis, the next month, next few months,
I think there's some rotation that will
likely continue. So, it's a couple fold,
Jonathan. Um, one is the rate cuts.
That's true. But two, the starting point
is we have the most extreme
underperformance for small caps relative
to large caps since 2000. So that's the
setup going into this even with last
Friday's move. On top of that, what's
changed more recently in our work, the
forward earning estimates for the small
cap index are rising at the fastest pace
that we've seen for some time. So that's
a positive. That's different than what
we saw last uh year. And where's that
coming from? Well, it's coming from from
also tech and communications within that
sector, but we're also seeing
industrials and then financials which
will benefit from the lower rates,
steeper curve, and also a pickup in M&A
and deregulation uh as well. And then
positioning is still somewhat off sides.
Earlier uh a few months ago, we saw the
greatest outflows out of small caps that
we've seen over the last decade. So, I
think you put all that together and you
throw on top the one big beautiful bill
which has some incentives for more
leverage companies. It provides a setup
for small caps to uh to uh to do better
here even on a relative basis.
>> A lot to unpack there. Let's just start
on the rate story. Does 50 basis points
of rate cuts really get that done given
that there still is potentially a longer
way to go based on current analyst
estimates to get to neutral.
>> Uh well, I think it's the the path of
over the next say 12 to 18 months. But
no, I mean, you know, a quarter point or
15 basis points by itself isn't going to
dramatically change the game. I think
it's it's it's on the margin. It's a
positive, but it's not the only factor
that matters for small caps. Everything
else I laid out as far as, you know, the
the one big beautiful bill that I think
was underappreciated about the positive
impact on tax rates for small caps, the
pick up in M&A, even we're not there
yet, Lisa, but a little bit more clarity
on tariffs is helpful. And then the
other thing for small caps, too, you
need to tend to see better economic
growth uh as we move into next year. you
know, we're around 1.3% for the economic
growth this year. We're expecting that
to to move up closer towards 2% next
year. So, it's not gang busters, but
again, all these things are on the
margin at a time where position is still
relatively light and it doesn't take
much of a rotation out of these big cap
names to move these smaller cap index.
>> One reason why a lot of people are
skeptical of that argument, Keith, is
that there's been an underperformance
from the sector for a very long time. is
sort of the perennial underperformer and
everyone keeps hoping that that means
that it's cheap and it ends up just
being undervalued for a reason. A lot of
people have argued bigger companies can
adapt to whatever changes there are in
the tariff regime in some of the
regulatory regime than smaller companies
and we've seen them gain share. How do
you understand how to evaluate that to
understand whether something is cheap
given this sort of structural change
between big companies and small
companies?
>> Yeah. Well, we we've been making the
same arguments on loss caps and why
we've been overweight and still secular
still prefer them. But how do we make
that decision? Well, going back to that
kind of weight of the evidence approach,
you know, cheapness is not a catalyst. I
mean, people have been saying that small
caps are cheap every single year and
they haven't moved. I think the
difference this time that we're seeing
is earnings. Like, you know, earnings
for small cap and talking about the S&P
600 are still below where they were in
2021. What we've seen more recently is
is those earning trends start to move
forward. So if we look at the condition
is still were oversold as far as
performance. We're seeing the earnings
move up and then you have again a little
bit of deregulation, a little bit of
lower rate cuts, a little bit of fiscal
stimulus. And then on top of that we
look at the technical trends. The techn
technical trends are improving. We have
a the index is in a nice uptrend and on
a relative basis we're seeing um
improved performance. So you put that
all together and that leads us to say
hey the outlook has brightened here in
the near term for small caps. Keith,
Keith, do you basically think the fiscal
uptrend with the one big beautiful bill,
the deregulation outweighs this
potential hit we can see on small caps
in the next 6 to 12 months when it comes
to the settling of tariff rates?
I
>> I think this is I mean it's still an
issue, but part of the reason why small
caps have underperformed by the most you
know we've seen since 2000 and that's on
a three-year basis or even over the last
year they're still underperforming by
about 10%. Is because of this
uncertainty around tariffs. Now the
question becomes is that tariff outlook
going to become worse or do we know what
it is or do we have a better kind of uh
uh starting point today that at least
companies know how to adjust better. So
listen for all those reasons the you
know large caps can adjust better but at
some point saying what is priced in
relative to expectations. What we're
seeing in the large cap space is at
least on a short-term basis a lot of
good news is priced in probably needs a
digestion phase where again you move a
1% move invidia equates to you know more
than the biggest stock in the uh the
small cap index. So it's also about
positioning as well and I want to
distinguish maybe a shorter term several
months versus the long-term trends which
we think is filled with AI and tech.
Well, when it comes in within the small
caps, what industries are best prepared
to weather the storm?
>> Well, I think you know, if you look
about the the small cap indexes, a lot
of times it's a it's a story about
sectors. And the biggest sectors in um
small caps are financials and
industrials. And what they have in
common is they do benefit from some of
this stimulus. On the financial side,
they benefit from lower rates to pick up
an M&A and a steeper curve. the
industrial side benefits for some of the
incentives that we're seeing in that one
big beautiful bill and there also
backdoor AI plays as well. So I mean
those if you have if you're going to be
positive on the small cap area you have
to be somewhat positive on financials
and industrials because the sector uh
I'm sorry small caps have about half the
allocation to tech relative to to large
caps and we are positive on those like I
said financials and industrials. Hey
Keith, it's got to catch up. Keith
Linder there of Truist with the Russell
up by 610 of 1% of the small caps
outperforming once again this morning.
It's interesting the market's telling
you one thing and the data is telling
you something completely different. The
market's telling you that we're looking
at a reaceleration and growth
potentially. Look at the data from the
conference board earlier this week. The
shares of consumers that said jobs were
hard to get rose for a second month to
the highest since 2021. Last week on
house purchases from Red Fin, home
purchase contracts in the US canled at a
record rate for the month of July.
Something a miss here. What's right at
the moment?
>> You've been talking about this this idea
of can we price in the recovery before
the downturn has happened? Can we can we
bake in the idea of rate cuts forming
some sort of reaceleration before we
even get the weakness that the Fed would
ultimately be responding to? That's the
conundrum. Are we accurately
understanding just how much rate cuts
can stave off the weakness that we're
seeing in the data that will then lead
to a reaceleration that hasn't really
started yet? If your mind is somewhat
numb, well, just go buy stocks evident
at least.
>> My head's spinning and apparently people
are still buying stocks. Exactly.
>> Equities at a close yesterday. Alltime
highs on the S&P 500 this morning.
Little change with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. We're seeing Nvidia shares
falling nearly 2% in the pre-market. The
chipmaker gave a tepid revenue forecast
for the current period, signaling that
growth is decelerating after a
staggering 2-year boom in AI spending.
Nvidia says it expects sales to be
roughly $54 billion in the third quarter
that is in line with the average
estimate on Wall Street. Meanwhile, the
Mexican government is planning to
increase tariffs on China, fulfilling a
longstanding demand from President
Trump. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the tariff hikes are
expected for imports including cars and
textiles as Mexico aims to shelter
domestic manufacturers from subsidized
Chinese competition. And there's been
another shake shakeup within the Trump
administration. CDC director Suzanne
Monarez was fired just weeks into her
tenure. Her attorneys say health
secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. targeted
her because she refused to quote rubber
stamp unscientific reckless directives.
That's your boomer brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara later
this hour. Up next on the program, the
boom is over.
>> It's actually been about almost 5
quarters since the last time we saw a
significant beat and raise from an
Nvidia. I mean, a narrative I think
still largely very positive, but we just
didn't quite see the, you know, this
this beat and raise that market's been
looking for. That conversation up next
with Dan Ies of Wed Bush live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Bremo's back. So, let's do
this. The bond market in Europe. Check
this out. Germany, France, and Italy.
France trading super tight to Italy now.
And the spread between Germany and
France in the last 24 hours opening up
to a spread of about 80 basis points.
We're talking about that spread
potentially getting into triple digits.
The French want to get through, when I
say the French, I mean the prime
minister wants to get through 44 billion
euros worth of spending cuts and tax
hikes. And once again is proving rather
difficult.
>> Yeah. Which means maybe even the
collapse of the French government.
You're also seeing, and I know that this
will get you and Anorie both excited,
this idea that Italy is almost on par
from an implied creditworthiness as
France with France uh with 10-year
yields now trading just 10 basis points
under the similar denomination over in
Italy. That is the tightest since 2003
at a time where there's a real question
about how they deal with what their
current premier says is just an
absolutely overwhelming debate.
>> You know, outside of the bond market,
it's interesting. Euro weakness bank
stocks the big winner in Europe of the
year so far down 5% so far this week
just wonder to what extent this starts
to infect the overall let's get long
Europe let's look for that
outperformance over the US story
>> yeah we've been seeing a little bit of a
softening at least in the stands today
when you see some of the equity rebound
uh particularly in the likes of French
and France but you're right people who
talk about US political dysfunction need
to look elsewhere and look at the yield
uh particularly the 30-year yield across
the world rising to a significant
ificant degree because it's not just a
US political dysfunction story. It is a
global developed market political
dysfunction story and you're seeing that
very much expressed in the bond market.
>> That's the latest on the continent. Just
to reinforce what Lisa said, this is a
story that you're seeing play out
worldwide, not just state side. State
side, the main event, this stock right
here, Nvidia in the pre-market, negative
by 1.8%. Some push back from the analyst
community. 72 buys, seven holds, just a
one sell. A very constructive tone from
analysts overnight as well. City saying
we continue to see upside in data center
sales with or without China. Hargreaves
lands down out of the UK. Lisa smart
investors will look through the noise.
>> And this is the reason why Nvidia is on
course for annual sales of $200 billion.
That number expected to surpass $300
billion by 2028, which means that
they're getting about a third of the
entire revenue for the entire chip
industry. This isn't exactly a stock
that you really want to short. That's
basically what they're saying. stock is
down by 1.7% in early trading under
Savylvanas this morning. The boom is
over.
>> In a word, we just didn't see a beaten
raise. Uh and and it's actually been
about almost 5 quarters since the last
time we saw a significant beat and raise
from an Nvidia. I mean, a narrative I
think still largely very positive, but
we just didn't quite see the, you know,
this this beat and raise that market's
been looking for. I mean, I think, you
know, we have continued to see uh that
uh demand is strong, but you know, the
market's gotten so used to them, you
know, or hope to see for them to beat
numbers, and they haven't.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Nvidia
forecasting a deceleration in growth,
signaling the 2-year AI spending boom
may be coming to an end. Dan Ies, the
global head of tech research at Wedbush,
writing, "We view any decline in Nvidia
stock to be a clear buying opportunity
as it remains the only game in town
fueling this fourth industrial
revolution." Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, you've seen the headlines. The boom
is over. What's the push back this
morning?
>> I think the boom's just starting. I
mean, if you look at these numbers,
especially when you factor in what China
is going to be, I mean, you know, Jensen
talked about 50 billion 50% type growth
number. This just shows the next stage
of adoption is actually just starting. I
think look, I think this stock is green
today.
>> By the end of the day, Dan, that's what
you're saying. You think that by the end
of the day, people will realize, come
around to your point of view, that
actually what the disappointment was was
a non-inclusion of any China sales, but
a real robust uh growth elsewhere. Is
that your argument? you just exactly
like summarize it because the reality is
is that when you look at data center and
then you actually factor in what China's
going to be when you look at two to five
billion and you look at the acceleration
in the next few quarters I mean there's
no region that's not accelerating and
now in China with the payforplay model
back in you're talking about could be an
incremental 20 25 30 billion that's why
it comes down to the the godfather of AI
Jensen Avidia continue to dominate is
and I think this is just a further
validation. Tech stocks go higher.
>> Dan, I feel like we should do a show
where in the world is Dan Ies of Wed
Bush because you're always somewhere
different and this morning it looks like
you're down under in Sydney and I'm
curious about the rest of the world.
It's actually really uh telling that
you've been traveling the world because
outside of China, Nvidia's growth has
been tremendous and we've seen a real
increase particularly in other Asian
countries. How much does that give you
that extra bullish push that even if
it's not China, you are seeing the rest
of the world rush to adopt as much as
they can of Nvidia before maybe some of
the policies change.
>> Yeah. Look, and I think you see that le
when you look at Middle East, I mean
Middle East, perfect example where
they're just continuing to just
massively build that out, you know, when
it comes to Saudi UAE. Look, the reality
is is that they're years ahead of any
other chip player. I mean, you look at
everything happened from a Huawei
perspective. They're they've narrowed
the gap. But the reality is that every
Chinese big tech player wants Nvidia
chips. And I think what you starting to
now realize is that you you talk about a
third of that overall revenue going to
Nvidia. This is trillions that's going
to be playing out. That's why I believe
there's a $5 trillion market cap, you
know, either by year end or early 26.
>> But Dan, the China policy is subject to
change on the US side. And also we have
seen in the past Beijing telling firms
not to buy Nvidia chips. Can this
company continue to grow the way you
envision if say China was taken out of
the of the play?
Yeah, look there's no doubt China
continues to be that's the golden goose
for Jensen and Vinnie but that's also
why look Jensen 10% politician 90% CEO
and when you think about the China
market but also Beijing telling Chinese
companies big tech not to buy Nvidia
chips that's like telling a kid oh don't
eat the candy the reality is they want
Nvidia chips they don't want to have a
third fourth rate chip and that's why
Genta knows it and they're going
continue to kind of play this policy and
I think we sit here 6 9 12 months from
now. China's a $50 billion annual market
for them. Jensen Wang last night said
they keep advocating on the sensibility
of an importance of American tech
companies to lead and win the AI race.
Basically, we keep lobbying the American
government when it comes to Blackwell.
Do you think at some point they'll be
able to sell those chips into China?
>> Payforplay model, right? I mean, maybe
that 15% goes to 25%. Look, because
Jensen understands that what they can
sell that gives Huawei and China that
much more power. And I think in this AI
arms race between the US and China,
biggest poker chip on the table
continues to be Nvidia. And I think
that's the reality. There's no one that
has more influence when it comes to AI,
you know, relative to Trump than Jensen.
I mean, he's become really, I think, a
big strategic advisor for Trump
administration when it comes to AI.
>> Dan, nobody's saying the growth story is
going away. We don't think this is going
x growth. No one's suggesting that we're
going to see healthy double-digit growth
figures based on what we heard from the
company overnight. What they are
suggesting is that the level of growth
is going to change and perhaps we need
to reassess our view of this company.
With that in mind, Dan, how have you
changed your view as growth decelerates
just by definition?
Yeah, I mean look, my view is is that as
you start to actually go into physical
AI world and you go into autonomous, you
go into robotics, you look at the next
few years, I could argue streets
underestimating numbers 25 30% next few
years. So, I think as this actually
plays out, my view is like Nvidia is
undervalued relative to where this is
all going. And we're only in, like I've
talked about, the AI party was 9:00 p.m.
It's now 10 10:15 p.m. That party goes
to 4:00 a.m. And Jensen's going to be
out there in the dance floor because he
and Nvidia are we in the AI revolution
along with the hyperscalers and
Palunteer. What's become clear though
from the earnings of the likes of
Microsoft and and Google or Alphabet is
that there is some push back when it
comes to the investor and community
about how much some of these companies
are spending and it needs to broaden out
in a significant way and if it does that
raises questions about how much Nvidia
has to steal market share from other
players. Who's going to be the bigger
loser as Nvidia continues and charts its
path over complete dominance of this
industry?
>> Yeah, look losers are clearly Intel,
right? I mean despite obviously what we
see with US government and you know and
obviously Soft Bank I mean I just think
there's a better chance of me playing
Ryder Cup Beth Paige than Intel gaining
share you know and I think that's that's
part of the issue is that AMD is going
to gain share Nvidia is going to gain
share you're clearly you know Broadcom
and others but I think it's a have and a
have knots that's going to continue to
play out but but you look at last
night's quarter along with what we've
seen earnings as a bull. You feel really
good in terms of the validation story
for AI.
>> Dan, before you go, should Keegan
Bradley have chosen himself?
>> Look, I think he could have chosen
himself. I you know, it was obviously
maybe a good decision for him, but I
think ultimately US wins that uh wins
that Ryder Cup. Beth Paige.
>> Oh, we'll see what happens. Dan Ies,
thank you, sir. Dan I of Wish 8:24 p.m.
8:25 now. It's Sydney, Australia. Dan
Ives should be on the dance floor in a
few hours time. He'll still be there and
he's dressed for it.
>> You just had your golf conversation. I'm
sorry. You managed to get some golf with
someone who really relates.
>> I wasn't expecting it to happen later on
the program. All right. That was my
chance.
>> That was your chance. You had to
>> made it happen. I think the European
team gets announced on September 1st.
Okay. All right. More on that still to
come. Not today. For like next month or
something. Up next, Toby Marcus of Wolf
Research.
There was a time not too long ago when
Nvidia would come out with underwhelming
results and you'd imagine this market
would collapse. I say collapse but down
at least 1% on the S&P. Not seeing that
this morning. Totally unchanged on the
S&P 500. Even the Nasdaq where Nvidia
makes up 10% of the index on the NASDAQ
100. That benchmark is totally unchanged
so far this morning. The equity market
going nowhere. outperformance on the
Russell up by 6/10 of 1% seen that a few
times in the past few weeks off the back
of the rate discussion so let's have the
rate discussion in the bond market
2-year 10 year 30-year compare the
extreme ends of the curve the front end
and the long end twos versus 30s the
steepest going back to November 21 in
yesterday's session and winding some of
that this morning with the front end
higher by a basis point and the very
long end lower by a basis point but
Bramo as you know that's been a story
over the last week
>> a lot of people have been attributing
this to this question of Fed independent
dependence and will the Fed essentially
cut rates substantially even in the face
of inflation allowing inflation
expectations to pick up in a significant
way. When you take a look at break even
rates, it sort of throws some questions
around that story because you're not
seeing them break out. You're not seeing
inflation expectations absolutely surge
and this seems to be a global story. So,
it goes to a real question. Is this a
question of supply and demand, of just
too much long-term debt that needs to
get sold to finance deficits around the
world, and too little demand at a time
of increasingly skeptical investors?
>> Yes. Yes. And yes, and worldwide in
France, in the UK, in Japan, and not
just the US. And we have to keep going
back to their story. We're seeing this
all over the place.
>> And all over the place, we're seeing
renewed concerns about a deficit and
frankly governments that are crumbling
over the need to actually finance it and
not just keep borrowing. And it raises a
question about the resilience of
developed market democracies to come
together at a time of increasing
polarization because that is a story
globally, not just in the United States.
>> We'll get to France in just a moment.
For the United States, 2 hours away,
8:30 Eastern time, you'll get jobless
claims. That's the next stop for this
market on the data front. With 3 hours
until the opening hour, let's get you
some single names, some morning movers.
We can do that with Danny Burgerer for
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Well, we did get through one
risk event and that was Nvidia earnings
yesterday. You pointed out that the
NASDAQ isn't moving much. Nvidia for its
sake is down less than 2%. Postmarket
yesterday was down 3%. So even some of
that has come back. It was a tepid
forecast 54 billion dollars worth of
revenue. Some of the estimates were as
high as 60 billion. But you heard from
Dan Ives who was just speaking to you
thinking that this stock would end green
by the end of the day. Jensen Huang
talking that there's still a lot of
demand there. The hyperscalers are still
spending. So maybe why you're not seeing
as much pessimism. Where you are seeing
pessim pessimism though is crowd strike.
Those shares are down 3%. They also
reported after the bell yesterday. It
was a disappointing quarter for crowd
strike. It would appear that remember
that whole thing a year ago when crowd
strike went down and brought down with
it a lot of airlines and other things
that's still having lingering impact and
lingering cost. So that affecting their
quarter. The real winner though from the
earnings last night was Snowflake. This
is the software company. They gave a
forecast that was very strong, stronger
than expectations. There had been a
concern with this company that because
of an economic slowing that less
customers would be buying their products
and at the same time AI coming into the
force would also make them less
relevant. That didn't happen. Again,
strong figures for those shares up
nearly 14%. John
>> Danny, appreciate the update. More from
Danny in the next hour on a radar this
morning. Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang saying
it's a real possibility the company
brings its advanced Blackwell chip to
China. The company currently limited to
selling the less advanced H20 chip to
China where it owes the US a 15% cut of
sales. Elsewhere, a letter from Chinese
President Xi to his Indian counterpart
written in the run-up to President
Trump's liberation day tariffs now
coming to light. The letter expressing
concerns over the US and urging the
countries to test the waters on
improving ties. And finally, as
promised, the French Prime Minister
Franu ramping up efforts to hold
together his government as the country's
parliament pushes for his resignation.
the French leader warning against
holding snap elections and saying he'll
negotiate directly with lawmakers.
>> Yeah. And he has until September 8th
when they have that no confidence vote
potentially. Uh and this real question
of how do you bring together two sides
that are increasingly polarized? This is
what I was hinting out earlier. That's
very much what he's saying. How we can't
govern. So you get rid of me as a
premier. Who are you going to put in
next? Are they going to be able to
handle this so much better? And we've
got this crippling debt load that we've
got to deal with. This is the reason why
long-term yields around the world are
rising because it is not a a problem
that's isolated to any one developed
market democracy.
>> And it's deja vu. If they put someone
else new in, they're going to deal with
these same exact problems. How to get a
budget through when you have a very
polarized parliament. Michelle Bonnet,
who he took over for, similar situation
we saw lasted only 90 days. This new
prime minister is in the chair for 9
months. This basically means we are
likely going to see a collapse of the
French government. This is going to be
very challenging for Manuel Macron.
>> You're gonna see this problem on repeat.
We talked about this earlier this week.
I think we've really got to think this
through. They will not vote for this
stuff until the alternative is worse. I
said that repeatedly earlier this week.
So, what do I mean by that? They won't
vote for this stuff until the market
consequences are worse. And this is
nothing to get the kind of reforms, the
kind of cuts to spending and tax hikes
that a lot of people think the likes of
the French government need to do. to get
those politicians on board for that to
be politically palatable for them. They
need to prove that the alternative is
worse. And we're not there yet. And
that's the worrying thing for me. To get
better, things need to get worse. That's
a problem.
>> It seems like governments around the
world are playing chicken with bond
markets and everyone's saying bond
markets are the ultimate adult in the
room and they have to come and
discipline governments around the world
and they don't really want to do it yet
because the yield is still appealing on
some kind of level. So to your point,
what kind of sell-off do you need to
see? What kind of yield spike do you
need to see before there's some kind of
step toward improvement? It's a great
question and right now it's one that
markets want to just ignore, keep
buying, and go back to the beach.
>> It's not 350 on French 10s. Let's put it
that way. I like the beach line. Very
European.
>> Yeah, you want to go there.
>> That that works.
>> Maybe this weekend.
>> Why not? Yields lower in France by a
basis point. Stop distracting us. This
holiday mood, I feel it. Those vacation
vibes.
>> You want to squelch it? You're like
taking How long's this going to last?
Well, you know, maybe another Well, I'm
go off again tomorrow. It's great.
>> There you go. Me, too. Me, too. Weekend.
Very European. Okay, let's turn to the
Federal Reserve. A lawsuit from Fed
Governor Lisa Kirk looming as President
Trump moves to fire her from her
position. The NEC director Kevin Hassid
calling on Cook to take leave while the
case plays out. For the latest, here's
Tyler Kendall with more. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, Fed
Governor Lisa Cook could file her
lawsuit as soon as today challenging
President Trump's efforts to oust her.
Now, it is widely expected that Cook is
going to seek something known as a
preliminary injunction, which would
decide whether or not she's able to
remain in her seat, not to mention vote
in the September meeting while the
broader legal issue of her case plays
out in courts. And I had the chance to
catch up with one legal expert who told
me that it is this injunction request to
really pay attention to because that is
going to set the table for at least the
next few months. Now, as you all know,
the president says he has sufficient
cause to fire Cook over these
allegations of mortgage fraud, but no
formal charges have been filed. And
perhaps we got a little bit more insight
into how the White House is thinking
about this legal case yesterday when
senior trade adviser Peter Navaro joined
Bloomberg television and said that the
White House is prepared to argue that it
does not matter that these allegations
have to do with Cook's private conduct
and not her time at the Federal Reserve.
That is going to be one of the big
questions that the courts have to decide
because John, we know that President
Trump is looking to get that majority on
the Fed uh board of governors. He said
it himself that he's looking for that
four out of seven seats to be Trump
appointees, but we are not there yet. A
person familiar though does tell
Bloomberg News that the Senate Banking
Committee is prepared to kick it into
high gear and hold a confirmation
hearing next week for Steven Myin who's
been uh appointed or nominated for that
uh temporary board seat when it comes to
the Fed. If this were to happen by that
September 17th date uh John that would
be considered pretty fast movement by
the US Senate.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. More from
Tyler in the next hour. Tyler, thank
you. Joining us now is Tobin Marcus, the
head of US politics and policy at Wolf
Research. Tobin, welcome back to the
program. Where do you think ultimately
this one is going?
>> Thanks. Good to be here. Um, my guess
would be that at the end of the day, the
Supreme Court will side with President
Trump and uphold the firing of Fed
Governor Cook. I think at the lower
court level, I do think she will get a
preliminary injunction. The district
court in DC has tended to side with
independent agency commissioners who've
been fired in these disputed cases. It's
a fairly democratic leaning
jurisdiction. I think that'll get held
up at the circuit court level. But when
this gets to the Supreme Court, I you
know, I think that the the centerright
block in the court, Roberts, Kavanaaugh,
and Barrett, who are going to be
decisive here, I just think that they're
going to be quite reluctant about
second-guessing what constitutes cause
for the president given their investment
in sort of a strong unitary executive,
given the lack of specificity in the
statute about cause. The Federal Reserve
Act doesn't say anything about cause. it
doesn't specify what constitutes cause
and it certainly doesn't call for a
specific set of procedural guard rails
around that. So, you know, I I think
it's um despite their protectiveness of
the Fed, which we did see in that Trump
vers Wilcox decision, I I think I'll be
reluctant to second guess him.
>> Tobin, when it comes to that decision
though in May, they signal that the Fed
is inoculated. It is a quasi private
entity. Why would they almost do a
reversal? So they signal that the Fed is
carved out from their invalidation of
the for cause uh protections for other
independent agencies. So what that
decision in May said was the the uh
requirements that you can only fire
independent agency commissioners for
cause everywhere except the Fed are not
good law. Even though that's in the
statute, we're going to say you can fire
them whether you have cause or not. And
that's held up at the FTC and the NLRB
and all these other alphabets
independent agencies. The Fed, they
said, is sort of it has a special and
distinctive history. This is a basically
totally ad hoc uh legal distinction they
drew, I think, basically because they're
concerned about the Fed more so than
they are about agencies like the FTC.
But that was about whether or not you
need cause. It didn't say anything about
what cause is. And so I think when you
get into that latter question, that's
where looking over the president's
shoulder and kind of micromanaging the
executive from the judiciary is
something that is is kind of counter to
a lot of what uh the Roberts court has
has tried to do over the past few years.
But taking a step back, there's been no
formal investigation. She hasn't been
charged, let alone convicted. Does that
make it that much more difficult for the
Supreme Court?
>> Uh, yeah. I mean, it it weighs on one
side of the ledger. I think those are
reasons why you might think that cause
does not exist here. Uh, but again,
there's nothing in the statute that
requires any of that. So, you know, I
mean, reading across from how uh kind of
for clause provisions in private sector
contracts uh have sometimes been
adjudicated. I think it's you can make
an argument that you do need something.
You need some sort of formal uh
determination. You need some due
process. Uh but that's not written into
the statute anywhere. And so, I think
kind of coloring outside the lines of
the the black letter of the law is
something that they um will be will be
reluctant to do. I do think it could go
either way. I think this is a close
call. It's it's legally novel. There's
not a lot of clear precedence. We
haven't adjudicated a lot of cases like
this in the past. But my guess would be
at the end of the day, this particular
court is not going to want to go there.
>> To it seems like uh the analyst
community is talking about the loss of
Fed independence when it comes to this
case. It looks like the markets don't
care at all. It looks like the markets
have basically shrugged this off and
said it's a non-story at this point. It
really matters who comes in, what they
do, what the response function is should
inflation start to pick up. Why is there
such a dissonance? Who's right?
Yeah, it's been a really interesting uh
reaction or or lack of reaction from the
market. So, I mean, I will say the
movements when Trump announced Cook's
firing were not dramatic, but they did
point in the direction you'd expect. You
were talking earlier on the program
about the long end of the curve
remaining stickly high. I think that's
been notable even before this this uh
story about independence. Just as
expectations for policy rate cuts at the
front end have gotten priced in, we
haven't really seen the long infall
especially the 30-year. So to some
extent like those concerns about whether
or not we really do have inflation
managed were already kind of baked in
the dovish pivot is already baked in
both based on the chair transition and
based on Powell's meshing at Jackson
Hole. Um and then I think that to the
extent we do see a change here from like
even in the Cook firing case it's months
down the road because I do think that
you will get a preliminary injunction um
early on and there's at least some some
question as to whether this will stick
at all. So I think between the fact that
this may not hold up and the fact that
it's kind of pointing in the same
direction as a set of less extraordinary
policy shifts that we're already
underway um I think that's kind of why
we're not seeing a bigger market
reaction. But I I agree it's certainly
an interesting uh uh non-response. It
>> it's messy all around that's for sure.
Apart from in the market Toby Marcus
there of Wolffra Research Tobin
appreciate it. Thank you sir. I found
this situation really bizarre over the
last week. I understand why the
establishment view and the conversation
is suffocated by worries about Fed
independence. I get all of that. But at
the same time, we're almost ignoring
what underpins all of this, real
allegations of mortgage fraud, which
should be very simple to clean up one
way or the other. And I've been
surprised in the last couple of days,
and maybe we need to give it some more
time, and we should give space for due
process, of course, that this hasn't
been addressed very clearly. Go out and
say this happened or it didn't happen.
And if you believe it did on the
government side of things, open up the
investigation, which hasn't happened
either. And that's the thing that I'm
focused on more than just can the
president fire a Fed governor or not.
Let's talk about why this came about.
Can we clear that up or not? And why is
it taking so long? That's where my
attention is.
>> Yeah. And that's the reason why the Fed
has said we'll abide by whatever the
court's decision is on this case. A lot
of people shrug this off as it's noise.
And frankly, we have seen a lot of noise
this year, and the more we look through
it, the better. At the same time, there
are some real questions here. Another
question is what is the reaction
function for any incoming new Fed member
if there is some sort of increase in
inflation, right? Is there a reaction or
is there going to be some sort of yield
curve control? All of these questions
leave people in sort of a some state and
that's what we see this morning.
>> Bonus this morning down about a basis
point of 30 a year at 491. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. White House trade adviser Peter
Navaro is pressuring India to halt its
purchases of Russian oil. In an
interview here on Bloomberg, Navaro
accused New Delhi of funding the
Kremlin's campaign in Ukraine and even
calling the conflict Mod's war. The US
has doubled tariffs on India to 50% this
week in an effort to secure concessions
on trade and pressure Russia. Meanwhile,
MercedesBenz is urging US and EU
officials to quickly follow through on
their trade deal to lower auto tariffs
as it says manufacturers are being
squeezed by the ongoing duties. European
automakers still face a 27.5% tariff on
vehicles to the US with the rate set to
fall to 15% once the EU, as we've
reported, removes levies on US
industrial goods. And things got tense
on the court at the US Open with
American Taylor Townsend telling her
opponent Yelena Oapenko she has no
class. The heated exchange which you can
see there happened yesterday right after
Townsend won their second round match.
Ostenko claiming Townsend disrespected
her when she didn't say sorry about a
net ball in a deciding moment of the
match. That grief John
>> nothing beats Medvidev for scenes at the
US Open so far but this has been fiery
hasn't it? Yeah. Well, I mean, a little
bit of drama. This idea of the right
etiquette. You say sorry if there's a
net ball. I never knew that.
>> You're meant to really like hold up your
hand. Yeah.
>> Really? And if you don't hold up your
hand, then you start, you know, words
fly. Fist fly.
>> I don't know about fist. That'd be an
interesting thing. I'd stay up to watch
more US Open tennis. If that kind of
thing happens,
>> if you want drama, go to the Central
Park tennis courts 96%
without a doubt.
>> 80-year-olds beating each other up. No
one apologized. Oh, it is great for
drama.
>> Up next on the program, questioning Fed
independence.
>> You've got the long end which is being
confronted by the fiscal situation being
confronted by questions around Fed
independence. So, I do think the steer
trade makes sense. I have got more
confidence in owning shorter dated
intermediate bonds rather than the long
end. Up next, El Davis of Beimo.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P
unchanged, slightly softer on the NASDAQ
100 down by not even a tenth of 1% even
with some underwhelming forecasts coming
out of Nvidia. The outperformance this
morning actually on the Russell, the
Russell 2000 up by 0.4%.
and Savanis this morning questioning Fed
independence.
>> Yields still look elevated versus where
they've been. Does feel like we're in an
environment where owning bonds makes
sense. You've got the long end which is
being confronted by the fiscal situation
being confronted by questions around Fed
independence. So I do think the
steepener trade makes sense. I have got
more confidence in owning shorter dated
intermediate bonds rather than the long
end. And I think that's not just a US
phenomenon. That is a global phenomenon.
So here's the latest this morning. The
long end of the yield curve in focus as
President Trump's attack on the Fed
raises questions about the central
bank's independence. O Davis of the head
of fixed income at Beimo Asset
Management writing the following. We
prefer being outright short 30-year
duration as the global tailwinds are
pointing towards higher bond yields.
Joins us now for more. Welcome to the
program, sir. I'm pleased you picked up
on the global theme. What is it about
what's happening developing globally
that's leaving the 30-year the long end
of the yield curve looking like it's in
a weak spot at the moment?
>> Yeah, there there's there's two things
that that are doing that. Uh one is um
increasing fiscal spending. Um and
that's driven a lot by defense and the
other one is unsustainable um global tax
policies maybe not in the US but in in
France that's exactly why the confidence
vote is coming up. And we have the same
the same thing in UK. So all these
things are adding a lot of duration risk
a lot of uh risk that people need to
premier from or risk premier additional
yield to own
>> which is interesting because one thing
that it's not necessarily is a market
increase in inflation expectations. I
was looking at 30-year break evens at
least in the United States. They haven't
really gone out of this range there at
2.3%. It's not that people expect
runaway inflation. So is it this
expectation that a number of developed
market economies are going to trade I
don't want to say more like emerging
markets going forward but there's going
to be a greater question of doubt of
their ability or willingness to pay in a
way that this world has not reckoned
with before.
>> Oh I I I wouldn't agree with that. I
would still think inflation is very very
important to the market. Um, but I've
been in the market 30 years and one
thing that I've come to uh to a
conclusion on is that the market only
focuses on one thing at a time and
inflation is one of the five things it
could focus on. The fiscal defendant
dependence, the data releases and and
right now because the market can only
focus on one thing at a time. It's not
inflation right now and and the reason
is we haven't seen the tariff flow
through or that come through. Uh my
expectation is that inflation will be a
story of 2026 but it's just not a story
for 2025 or the balance of 2025. Earl,
does it make you nervous to outright
short 30-year bonds at a time where
you're getting 4.9% carry and
potentially this is getting to be a
crowded trade as one potential offset to
some of the anxieties out there about
Fed independence and inflation?
Uh, no, not not at all. Not at all. And
this is the beauty of uh being a fixed
income active manager. There's actually
math involved in it. And to to offset
call it 5% carry um a fixed income
30-year bond has a 20-year duration.
That means you only need like a 30 basis
point move and your mark tomarket will
be more than 5%. So 30 basis point move
is well within the possibility. Uh I
think it'll be choppy until we get
through 510. Uh just a lot because of
like you said that 5% yield is it's a
shiny thing but you know the key as a
fixed income active manager is not to
get uh distracted by all the shiny
things.
>> Well Earl, you've been in the market for
30 years. Are you surprised that the
market is not really trading off this
idea of this potential threat to the
independence of the Federal Reserve?
>> Uh, no. No, not not not at all. And the
reason why I'm not is basically trading
101. When I have a trainee come on the
desk, I said there's two things you look
at at the market to determine where
yields are going to go directly and then
indirectly. Uh, the basic things are
monetary policy. So, Fed Fed um uh what
the Fed does and the other one's fiscal
policy. So all that's going to happen
with with with Fed independence if it
changes is more of the weight's going to
go to fiscal policy than than monetary
policy. But there obviously will still
be a weight with monetary policy. People
are anticipating lower rates uh given
what fiscal is doing. So no um not
worried about that at all. You know the
Fed wasn't created as a independent
body. It became independent during its
lifespan. So the regime is just going to
revert to where it was. So uh one of the
key things it it doesn't matter what
your end state is and you could talk
about anything for this. What matters to
the markets the delta how fast you get
there. And I believe that's what's being
reflected in the market. That's what's
being reflected in the headlines. That's
what's being reflected in the yield is
that this change from uh independence to
less independence. It's happening very
rapidly and and faster than people
thought. So I think that's that's what
the focus is on now. But the end state
uh it'll still be business as usual from
our perspective.
>> I've got about 40 seconds. I really
wanted to squeeze in this question. It's
on tariffs. When tariffs were first
introduced, it was actually negative for
treasuries. Yields rose. Over the last
few months, we've been focusing on how
much revenue those tariffs have been
raising, and people have been making a
case that's supportive of fixed income.
If these tariffs fail to stand up to
legal scrutiny in the next few days,
would that be bond positive or bond
negative?
>> That's a hard one. Um, I I I think it
it's it's bond positive. um because
there's less uncertainty. You know what?
It's probably bond negative. It probably
increases the uncertainty because I
don't believe uh if if they're reversed
in the next few days, that's going to be
the last last chapter. So, it increases
the uncertainty until you get the last
chapter on on terrorists whe whether
they stand or not be through legislation
or legal things. Uh so, it increases
uncertainty. So, bond bond negative
immediately.
>> I appreciate that you're thinking this
through in real time. Thank you. Well,
thank you very much, sir. El Davis there
of Beimo. something we've all got to
think about maybe over the next 24
hours.
>> Yeah. This idea that more uncertainty is
not a good thing for markets given the
fact that they've looked for certainty
and right now people debating whether
the central bank is becoming more
politicized or whether unsustainable
policies and governments are going to
force central banks hands and that's
what we've seen increasingly.
>> It's all very calm, isn't it? Equity is
going nowhere on the S&P 500 very close
to alltime highs. Bond yields actually a
little bit lower this morning at the
long end of the curve, the 30-year at
490. Coming up next on Bloomberg
Surveillance in the second hour, we'll
catch up with Stuart Kaiser City, John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group, the IMF
deputy managing director, Gita Gopanath,
plus Chris M of Ocean First Financial
from New York City. This is Bloomberg
TV.
It's a very dynamic economy. Things
could be materially different next year.
The labor market is in the process of
weakening and will continue to weaken.
>> Ultimately, the Fed is on an easing
trajectory.
>> If we're just on a path towards more
gradual rate cuts, there is effectively
been a K-shaped recovery in the economy
for a number of years.
>> As we get a sense of who the new Fed
chair will be, we might very well have
to build in a more dumb reaction
function.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your price action looks like this.
Nvidia is only negative by close to 2%
in the pre-market even with an
underwhelming forecast. And the broader
market, check this out, is doing okay.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 basically
unchanged. The outperformance coming
from the Russell up by 0.5%. The Y, the
Y is coming from the bond market
reassessing the path forward for the
Federal Reserve in the last week or so.
a 2-year yield down to 36188.
>> And it goes to this conundrum that you
talked about earlier, the economic data
pointing to some weakening at least in
consumer confidence and consumer
spending power at the same time that
people are planning for a revival of
said consumer confidence and spending
power on the heels of rate cuts, which
is reviving the belief in the Russell
2000. It's head spinning. At the same
time, rate cuts are making everybody
really happy. With the Nvidia point
though, it is interesting to note people
are seeing this more as a China problem
than a broader AI issue.
>> Well, when it comes to China, they're in
a very tricky position. One, it's the on
andoff policy coming from Washington
whether or not they can get these export
licenses to sell. They were able to get
the export licenses to sell. Now,
they're saying they potentially will
face litigation because the 15% profit
the US government wants to sell them.
And then at the end of the day, China
may not want them. So, Jensen Wang has
to make another trip to Washington DC to
up another ask, the Blackwell. and
basically saying that this is
sustainable good AI policy to make sure
the US is dominating in the Chinese
market but the market is left with so
many questions about what actually they
can do in China.
>> The stock is down by 1.6% in the
pre-market as we've said repeatedly so
far this morning. The rest of the
market's doing all right, pretty much
unchanged on the S&P 500 all-time highs.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Stuart Kaiser of City as investors shake
off underwhelming Nvidia results. John
Lieber of Eurasia Group on the growing
legal fight at the Federal Reserve and
Chris Mahar of Ocean First Financial as
bank stocks hit record highs. We begin
this hour with stocks shaking off a
tepid Nvidia forecast. Stuart Kaiser,
the head of equity trading strategy, a
city writing the following. Nvidia's
earnings is the largest event for the
S&P 500 over the next month. For equity
investors, the AI theme and the impact
of that on returns is on par with the
Fed. Stu joins us now for more. Stu,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Things are pretty calm, aren't they?
What you make of that? Uh I mean I think
the Avidia numbers were just about good
enough effectively probably right at the
low end to where the whisper number was.
Uh the China stuff obviously adds a
little bit a little bit of noise to it
but I mean margin 70 you know 70
whatever four and a half 73 and a2%
exactly they wanted to be 54 billion in
revenues. I think that the test here was
if Nvidia was really strong what would
it have done to the Russell trade and I
think that's what a lot of people were
sort of debating was if we get a cuz uh
you know snowflake and MongoDB both very
strong results on the software AI side.
If you had gotten that from Nvidia,
would that have made people U-turn out
of the Russell and and and value trade
back into growth? It doesn't seem like
the numbers were strong enough to do
that, but they were strong enough to
keep the S&P from selling off.
>> So, Milto toast Nvidia report is good
for small caps.
>> Uh yeah, at least tactically. I you
know, at least I highlighted with with
the mix of policy versus data. I think
that that small cap trade has really
poor riskreward as we go into September.
Um because it's a careful what you wish
for wish for. Good news, good news, bad
news, bad news type situation. But yeah,
exactly. But yeah, I think I think the
Nvidia report kind of like threaded the
needle, right? It was strong enough that
you didn't get kind of a liquidation in
those long positions, but it wasn't so
strong that it disrupted the rotation
that's been going on for the last couple
weeks.
>> Is this actually a connected idea that
somehow big tech winning? Is small
companies losing? Or is this just simply
that markets can only focus on one idea
at a time, and if they're not focused on
AI, they're focused on the Fed? Yeah,
it's probably a little bit of both, but
yeah, I I would agree with that. I think
there is some view that how do you keep
up with the spending that these
hyperscalers are doing or if if you're a
smaller company, the market right now is
to some degree in one big trade, right?
And that trade is long growth, long
large cap, long the AI thematic, right?
And everything else has sort of been
ignored to some degree. What we saw in
August is people trying to re-engage
with those smaller cap, lower quality
laggers to some extent. And to your
point, I mean, there's a limited amount
of money, right? Money's got to be in
one place and and right now it's getting
kind of rotated a little bit into that
that value trade.
>> Is any money coming out of bonds and
going into stocks? And this is something
that a number of people had been
flirting with earlier in the year. The
idea that they could get better yield on
stocks at a time when inflation was
going to be a little bit more elevated
than say bonds, especially with
uncertain policy.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it' be interesting to see if
the Fed actually does start cutting and
those money market yields actually get
down to a level where it's a little bit
attractive if we see a re-engagement. If
you look at the balances in retail money
market funds, I mean, you're at like
three trillion bucks. It's a it's a lot
of money. Um, not all of that is coming
into stocks, right? I think some of that
was basically bank account money that
got put into money markets for yield. I
don't necessarily know that that would
go directly into equities, but there's a
potential you get a little bit of a
tailwind. A little bit of a tailwind
there. Question there though is if if
they're is why are they cutting is
ultimately what this gets into. If
they're cutting because the labor market
is falling apart, money is not going to
be rushing into equities and that's
going to be net negative for Russell
etc. If they're cutting because that
sort of base cases in play where they're
just gradually going back to neutral
neutral and otherwise solid economy then
yeah you might get money out of bonds
and equities.
>> Well, with the event of Nvidia behind
us, what's the market going to be
focused on now? Is it squarely on the
labor market report ahead of the Fed
meeting? Yeah, I think it's payrolls and
then September 9th you get the BLS
revision to payrolls which uh as you
cover Trump I'm sure that'll be very uh
very very
>> said this week in the cabinet meeting
that he expects a very strong labor
market report.
>> He he might get a decent labor market
report. But look, I mean consensus is
sub 100k. Chairp last week said break
even on on jobs right now is 50 to 75k.
So look, I mean a strong report right
now would probably be 125. But, you
know, our economists think you might
get, you know, 400,000, you know, uh,
negative revisions from the BLS
benchmark. That is not going to go over
well politically. And honestly, from a
markets perspective, that's that's a
sneaky event on September 9th. You know,
how many jobs get kind of revised out of
the BLS?
>> It's a really odd setup, isn't it? This
market's pricing in a cyclical upturn.
Federal Reserves really concerned,
increasingly concerned about a cyclical
downturn. What gives?
>> I I agree with you 100%. I actually
thought the response to the Fed, the
response to the Fed was much more
positive than than I would have guessed.
I think what happened was the initial
headline was, you know, about they're
getting ready to cut, but if you read
his speech, it was because they are
seeing some, you know, weakness in the
labor market. Not only is he saying
weakness, they think the riskreward is
really poor. And then a lot of folks, I
think, believe that they're prioritizing
growth, but he also specifically said
we're not going to allow tariff driven
inflation to become a bigger problem.
So, I I I was surprised honestly at how
positively the market react reacted to
the Fed. Um, but yeah, I I I with you. I
think you have a little bit of I don't
want to say disagreement, but you have a
situation where the Fed is clearly
worried about the growth side of their
mandate. The market has been willing to
ignore that to some degree. Um, and as I
said, I think that gives you really poor
riskreward in some of these smaller cap
trades.
>> There's a phrase I really don't like,
but I'm going to use it. Hawkeish cup.
Is that kind of what you're thinking
about going into September 17th? of
course all relative to what's expected
at the time and what comes in on the
data front over the next few weeks. But
is that where you're at now?
>> I guess, you know, in the sense that
yeah, they are probably going to cut and
yes, I think they're going to be very
cautious in how they cautious in how
they message that in the sense that this
is not, you know, an aggressive kind of
cutting regime. And look, if you get a
very weak labor market report, that cut
may not may not come across as as
hawkish. So, you know, they are they are
very very data dependent. But all else
equal, let's say we print a consensus
job number of call it 75K and you get an
okay inflation print, then yes, they'll
cut. But to your point, they're not
going to message this as an aggressive
cutting cycle. They're probably going to
message this as a meeting by meeting
process that that is data dependent. So,
if you just turn this on its head and
take it a step further, is this
essentially a market that's hoping this
is a politicized rate cut and that it's
going to be a politicized rate cutting
cycle that doesn't necessarily warrant
it based on where the economy is, which
will give fuel to equities, but won't
actually be as a result of economic
weakness.
>> Well, to keep myself out of trouble, I'm
going to call those insurance cuts. Yes.
And I think
I think the market will probably Yes. um
enjoy some insurance cuts. Look, there
is a a sneaky Uber bull case out there
lurking, right? Which is that for 3
months, corporate America sat on their
hands, did less hiring, did less capital
investment because of the uncertainty
around tariffs and taxes and
immigration. And we get into September,
things have calmed down, and you have
budgets that need to be spent into your
end, and you get some hiring. That is a
low probability, but very kind of, you
know, bullish outcome. You know, you say
that it's low probability, but I was
looking at your very own economic
surprise index, and it actually is at
the highest, the most positive going
back to the end of last year. So, if you
see, yes, the economic data hasn't been
great, but it's been trending in the
right direction. It's actually going the
opposite direction of some sort of doom
and gloom in the economy. So, how do you
square that with the idea that there
really is weakness under the hood that
the Fed is responding to?
>> Well, what's what's interesting about
that, too, is a lot of this coming from
the soft data, which is survey data. Um,
Missish was actually quite weak. So it's
the survey data that's improved. You're
triggering. No, but the survey data
that's improved has been corporate
survey data. It's been the PMIs. So in
the sense if you believe that corporates
are going to re-engage, that's very
positive news. If you're worried about
the labor market, you're kind of a
little more circumspect about it. So
agree that the data looks pretty good.
Look, economic surprise can be positive
for two reasons. It could be really
strong data or really low expectations.
In this case, it might be that the
expectations were kind of low and we're
clearing a relatively low bar. that kind
of setup with corporate America having
the one big beautiful bill,
deregulation, and some clarity on
tariffs. What does that mean for the Fed
in 2026?
>> I mean, it probably means the Fed will
be really, if they're in a cutting
cycle, doing it very very methodically
and and maybe like a quartertoquarter
basis instead of a meeting to meeting
basis. Look, if they get if you were to
have all of that stuff kind of coalesce
into a little bit of an upturn in in the
US economic data, then yeah, the Fed is
going to be much more focused on
ensuring that the inflation risk is out
of there. I mean, you have a a Fed chair
who was there during an inflation surge,
is getting ready to leave that seat. I
can't imagine he wants to leave that
seat with inflation pressure again kind
of being an issue. So it would actually
be a a blessing for the Fed, I think, if
you got an upturn in corporate econ
corporate economic activity that allowed
the Fed then to kind of take their time.
>> I didn't take you as a um kind of guy.
>> I used to be a Mitch kind of guy and
then I realized the respondent rate, you
know, the response rate is just
ridiculous.
>> Yeah. You you need to defend yourself
here because you know you kind of guy
evidently is sort of your new kind of uh
>> it's like conspiracy theorist kind of
guy.
>> This is what happens when the British
come. They don't like the Dow. They
don't like you.
>> I think Governor Waller likes you.
>> They're anti-American.
>> Well, please.
Oh, boy.
>> I'm I'm more pro-American than half this
country right now. Stu,
>> fair enough. I'll give you that. I'll
gra
away. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide. That's true. Let's get you a
Bloomberg brief with Yahara. Hey,
Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. We start with our top story.
Nvidia trading lower 1.8% in the
pre-market. The chipmaker gave a tepid
revenue forecast for the current period,
signaling that growth is decelerating
after a staggering 2-year boom in AI
spending. Nvidia says it expects sales
to be roughly 54 billion in the third
quarter in line with the average analyst
estimate on Wall Street. And on the flip
side, we are seeing TD Bank shares
rising 3 and 3/4% in the pre-market. The
bank reported thirdarter earnings that
beat Wall Street estimates. TD saw
record revenue in its Canadian business
which was a key point to focus for
growth in the wake of its US
anti-moneyaundering
issues and a correction on an early
reporting about the incident at the US
Open. Taylor Townsen was the was the
tennis player who claimed her opponent
yelling at Oapena told her that she has
no class. The tense moment came after
Townsen won their second round match.
Oapeno says town census respected her
when she didn't apologize about breaking
an unwritten rule over a net ball.
That's our brief. John, thank you.
Thanks for the update. Up next on the
program, asserting control at the Fed.
>> I think these are bogus charges. This is
more about his effort to exert control
over the Fed because I think they're
concerned that their trade agenda is is
causing great weakness in the labor
market and they want rates lower. Up
next, John Lieieber of Urasia Group from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equities doing okay. No real
drama whatsoever so far this morning.
Futures negative by not even a tenth of
1%. A touch of underperformance on the
NASDAQ 100 and a little bit of
outperformance on the Russell. Small
caps making a comeback, winning again
this morning by 0.45%.
Under surveillance this morning,
asserting control at the Federal
Reserve.
>> I think these are bogus charges. I
believe there's probably plenty of
people in the administration who have
done the same. This is more about his
effort to exert control over the Fed
because I think they're concerned that
their trade agenda is is causing great
weakness in the labor market. And they
want rates lower. And to be fair, this
is what the president has always wanted
is lower rates. Here's the latest this
morning. A lawsuit from Fed Governor
Lisa Kirk looming as President Trump
attempts to fire her over allegations of
mortgage fraud. With the latest, here's
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Hey, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Well, Fed Governor Lisa
Cook could file her lawsuit as soon as
today challenging President Trump's
efforts to oust her. Our eyes are glued
on the dockets to see when this lands
because it is widely expected that Cook
is going to seek something known as a
preliminary injunction which would
decide whether or not she's able to keep
her seat, not to mention vote in the
September meeting while the broader
issue of her firing plays out in the
courts. And I spoke with one legal
expert who said it is really this
decision on the injunction to pay close
attention to here because that is going
to set the tone for at least the next
few months as this really does play out
uh in the legal system. And as you well
know, President Trump says that he has
sufficient cause to fire Cook over
allegations of mortgage fraud. But we
should say no formal charges have been
brought against her. Though we did get
some new insight yesterday into how the
White House is thinking about this idea
of cause. I think it's worth mentioning
again that we had the White House senior
trade adviser Peter Navaro on Bloomberg
television who said that the White House
is prepared to argue that it does not
matter when these allegations took place
or that they have to do with private
conduct instead of her work as a Federal
Reserve governor. That is going to be
one of the top questions that the courts
have to decide because of course the
stakes are very high here. But perhaps
there is even heightened pressure by the
fact that Cook's term is not expected to
end until 2038. And John, we did get a
statement from the Federal Reserve
earlier this week outlining that one of
the reasons why Fed governors have such
lengthy tenures is to uh basically
insulate them from political pressures.
The Fed also said that it will abide by
any legal court decision. It's an a
sentiment that was echoed by President
Trump as well when Amory pressed him on
it during a cabinet meeting earlier this
week.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. To extend the conversation,
joining us now, John Lieieber, managing
director at the Eurasia Group. John,
welcome to the program. What are you
telling clients about how you think this
ends down in Washington? What's the end
of this look like?
>> I mean, uh, like we just heard, the end
of this comes with the Supreme Court
case. And the Supreme Court has been
fairly differential to the president in
his exercise of executive authority, at
least so far this year. And I don't
really think this issue is going to be
that different. So, I expect Cook will
be removed by the courts. And I'm not a
legal expert, so you should probably
talk to folks who are, but I think she
will be removed by the court. Trump will
be able to put his people on the board.
And what that means is that by the
middle of next year, you'll have a
majority of Trump appointees who are
going to be much more susceptible to
listening to what the president wants,
uh, which is lower interest rates, uh,
no matter what the facts say. So, I
think that's where this is headed. This
is about control of the Fed, and that's
Trump's goal, and it looks like he has
the tools in order to get there. Tobin
Marcus had the same view when it comes
to Supreme Court in the last hour. I
just pushed back on this idea. The
Supreme Court signal that they think
that the Fed should be a shield, should
not have this political pressure, saying
it's quasi private entity. Why is that
not going to be the take from the
Supreme Court this time around?
>> Right. So, the Fed said that in the
context of Trump's ability to just kind
of randomly fire people at the heads of
agencies because he doesn't like them.
But what's unique about this situation
is that the statute, the Federal Reserve
statute, the one that created the banks
and created the board positions, says
that the president has the ability to
remove people from the board for cause.
And that's why the pretext of Cook's
mortgage allegations is important here
because it's giving Trump cause to
follow the statute and then remove her
and then presumably other members of the
board as he wants if he finds cause. I
think that's going to be one of the
important parts of the court's
litigation here of litigation in the
courts here is whether or not he has
sufficient cause to remove her. And like
I said, they've been so differential to
the president. Why wouldn't they say
that he's the one who gets to determine
what cause is?
>> This is going to be the final straw when
it comes to this legal process. In just
the next few weeks, do you think she's
going to be able to stay at the Fed?
Will she be at the September meeting
when they decide on the next interest
rate to cut?
>> Yeah, that's a lot harder to say. I
don't No, I mean this question of the
injunction is important and you know the
fed said they're going to follow
whatever the courts say. So if the
courts give an injunction and tell the
that president that he can't remove her
then I think that she'll probably stay
in her seat. The fed will let her in.
That could cause some controversy. But
you know the White House has been
differential to the legal process uh as
they've done these expansions of
executive authority. So it's just a
question of whether or not the courts
grant this injunction. If they do, she's
on the board. If they don't, I imagine
the Fed escorts her out of the building
and tells her, you know, you've got to
you got to fight this out in the courts
and we'll see you once you get a
decision.
>> John, are you surprised that there
hasn't been more of a discussion around
why there is not an investigation that
has been revealed about exactly what the
allegations are? I mean, it feels a
little bit frustrating to be speculating
on something that seems to lack a lot of
details. Well, I hate think that's one
of the wilder parts of this story is
that the whole allegation came out of
the FHFA, which has no business randomly
looking into the mortgages of high
ranking federal officials. And it looks
like that's what they're doing. So, I
actually think that's probably an
underrated piece of this is the
weaponization of these federal agencies
uh against people that the Trump
administration doesn't like. I would
have kind of thought this would come out
of the IRS before it came out of the
FHFA, but it came out of the FHFA. And
and you know what's another interesting
data point here is that she hasn't
denied the directly denied the
allegations against her. Um maybe she
doesn't remember and has to look up the
paperwork like she says or maybe she did
it and it's actually a fairly common
practice. I don't know but I think
that's a uh interesting thread to pull
on here.
>> And as the story does progress and if
there is going to be some sort of
replacement on the Fed, we know there's
going to be a new Fed chair. There's a
question of what the role of Congress is
going to be in terms of confirmation and
how high the bar is for them for someone
who is an independent thinker versus
someone who wants to lower interest
rates regardless of the economic
backdrop. How much of a check do you
think they'll be on that?
>> Right now, I don't think there'll be a
check at all. I mean, I think that
they've basically rolled over for
everything Trump's want Trump wants so
far this year. They're appointing people
to the uh judiciary to the um uh to law
enforcement positions who are pretty
unqualified. And I think that right now
they're in a mood to give Trump what he
wants. Now, this the Fed is a unique
institution. And one of the reasons it's
unique is because it affects a lot of
people that fund campaigns. And so
there's going to be a lot of um uh
political donors that are in the ears of
members of Congress over the next few
months about the quality of Trump's
replacements on the board. Um but and I
think that could have some influence,
but I'd be very surprised to see them
stand up at this point and deny the
president the ability to appoint the
people that he wants. John, this
morning, who is running the CDC given
what took place overnight?
>> Yeah, I have no idea. I mean, you look
at these other removals that are
happening at the CDC, uh, at the BLS,
uh, you look at what's happening at the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and it's
clear that they are going to put Trump's
people in place, and if you aren't on
board with the Trump administration's
agenda, you're going to be out. So, I
don't know what's happening at the CDC.
I think that's that'll be an important
storyline to watch over the next few
months.
>> But this person was a Trump pick. No.
So, what happens now? Is this going to
be another legal battle that we're
seeing take place as well, similar to
Governor Cook?
>> Well, what I saw last night from the
press releases was that she hadn't been
officially informed that she'd been
removed from her job. I imagine the
president has the ability to remove her
if he wants or the secretary. That could
just be a process thing and she just has
to get the uh the letter in the mail
that says she's gone. Um I don't she
doesn't have the same protections as far
as I know that a uh that the Fed the
Federal uh the Federal Reserve does. Um
I imagine if they want her gone, she's
out.
>> Hey John, appreciate your take as
always, sir. Thank you. John Lieber
there of Eurasia Group on the current
situation down in Washington. As if the
job of the Federal Reserve wasn't hard
enough right now. They've got to
confront some really conflicting data.
This this morning, Dixs raising its
outlook. Another retailer in America
saying that things might get better
going into year end. I think Victoria
Secret doing the same thing too.
>> We've seen that across the board. We saw
TJ Maxx come out beating expectations.
This is the reason why some people
including what our conversation to start
off the show is all about how earnings
expectations have actually gone up for
the Russell 2000. So, it's not just rate
cuts. It's actually that things are
getting better, which speaks to the big
bull case that Stuart Kaiser was laying
out that maybe there is sort of a soft
patch rate cuts and then better data
that already is in the pipeline with
companies ready to spend.
>> Is this really your tension right now?
market pricing a cyclical upturn. Fed
worried about a cyclical downturn.
Christian Malardi was in that chair
yesterday. Christian making the point
that he thinks the real risk here is
reaceleration just as the Federal
Reserve is cutting interest rates.
>> Yeah. And how much does this really feed
into inflation? And I think that that's
really the question. Is it re
acceleration in an increase in
productivity and hiring that all comes
with this disinflationary tilt or do we
see inflation pick up in a way that a
lot of people were expecting on the
heels of tariffs and some of the uh sort
of disagregation of traditional supply
chains?
>> It's an interesting moment Q3 into Q4
into year end 2025 and then 26 for the
Federal Reserve once we get to May sort
of in no man's land. Who knows what
happens in 2026. Futures on the S&P 500
just a little negative this morning down
by close to a tenth of 1%. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Gita
Gopernath in her final interview as the
IMF deputy managing director. Plus,
we'll catch up with Danny with your
morning movers. I mentioned Dick
Sporting Goods. We'll also talk about
Victoria Secret boosting its fullear
outlook. That stock up in a pre-market
by 8% from New York City. This is blimp.
[Music]
Some pretty decent reports from
retailers so far this morning. We'll get
to that in just a moment. Here's a
snapshot of the price action. Equity
futures on the S&P just a touch negative
down by not even a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. Outperformance again on the
Russell. Small caps up by 0.4. Let's get
you those movers, those single names.
Your morning movers with Danny Ber. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Yeah, for the most part they
were positive. Let's start with maybe
the uncertainty around Best Buy. When it
first reported earnings, shares were
down nearly 2%. Now it moves to
unchanged. The nervousness is around
what happens with the holiday period.
They've raised prices. So this current
quarter was pretty good. They beat on
all the metrics, but they unch they did
not change their outlook. So, do
consumers finally start pushing back
against higher prices? Again, this
market trying to decide what to make of
it. And then the shares go positive.
Now, the the blatantly positive story
starting with Victoria Secret shares up
7 and a3%. They raised their outlook for
the full year. And not just that, the
CEO in the earnings release talking
about how their margins have really
started to strengthen that it's not just
sales growth that they've been able to
pull different levers to make sure that
they're not impacted by higher prices.
Then there's Dick Sporting Goods as
well. Really clear demand for the
products that they're selling. Even so,
this one flipping too. Dicks initially
raising their outlook for the entirety
of the year. Initially shares rallied to
a healthy amount. Those starting to come
back too. Again, it's this question, do
things remain sunny during the holiday
period. They also have to incorporate
Foot Locker. It doesn't seem like
there's quite yet a clear plan for what
they're going to do with that when the
acquisition is complete. So, those
shares now starting to slump. John,
giving up earlier gains. Danny, thank
you. Appreciate the update. More from
Danny in the next hour. On a raise this
morning, stocks shaking off an
underwhelming forecast from Nvidia with
the chip maker missing lofty
expectations. Now, the CEO, Jensen Wang,
saying it's a real possibility the
company brings its advanced Blackwell
chip to China. Elsewhere, the Mexican
government planned to increase tariffs
on China following pressure from
President Donald Trump. The levies
likely impacting cars, textiles, and
plastics. Specific tariff rates are not
yet clear, and the plan could change.
And finally, the European Union
considering secondary sanctions to stop
other countries from helping Russia
circumvent the block's existing
sanctions. The EU foreign ministers are
also weighing measures to target
Moscow's oil, gas, and financial
sectors. Remember when the Treasury
Secretary told us that when they were
talking about secondary sanctions or
tariffs, he was sitting down with
European leaders and it got really
quiet. Everyone at that moment to his
his words started looking at what kind
of shoes they were wearing. Well, the
Europeans are actually finally
considering this. This potentially is
what the United States is doing when it
comes to basically India. We are going
to put a penalty on you if you keep
buying Russian oil and gas. the issue
and you keep making the same point.
Europe is still importing Russian energy
at this moment.
>> Some good developments though for the
White House, those two stories. One to
get Mexico on side. Mexico was heading
in that direction anyway, I think. So,
point one. Point two, just the idea that
also the secondary sanction story goes
along with the Mexicans doing that. I
think those two things add up quite
nicely. Get the Europeans on side,
Mexico on side. That's what the White
House wants to see.
>> The White House is forcing trading
partners to choose between it and China,
it and Russia. And that is the reason
why maybe and it relates to the idea of
India trying to get closer to China
because there has been the us or them
mentality and you're seeing that in some
of the sanctions plans elsewhere.
>> Let's stay on the global economy. Gita
Gopernath has been deputy managing
director of the international monetary
fund during one of the most
transformative economic periods in
modern history including the pandemic
inflation shock and the push to
delobalize after seven years at the IMF.
She's stepping down tomorrow and joins
us now for a final conversation. Gita,
welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance
and thank you for sharing your time with
us this morning. Let's start there.
Let's look at your time at the
International Monetary Fund. Just how
much has changed over almost a decade?
>> Hi and a pleasure to join you. Pretty
much I think everything has changed. I
started at the IMF in 2019 and that
feels like that was the calm before the
storm and you had the pandemic, you had
war in Ukraine and now geocconomic
fragmentation. I think the global
economic order is transforming in ways
we haven't seen in decades and it's
still highly unclear where the global
economy will settle. I think a second
big difference between 2019 and now uh
is on the fiscal front debt levels are
incredibly high. they are ever
increasing and while in the past you
might have said so what markets will
take it that's not the case anymore even
in advanced economies you see that in
France the UK and also in terms of long
yields in the US and I say the third big
change is on technology AI over the last
few years has certainly caught the
imagination of everybody huge promise
but also huge risks how has the IMF's
role changed during this period given
that it was set up under a very
different infrastructure at a time and a
lot of people are saying we're now in
the post Breton Bretton Woods era.
>> The IMF has great experience dealing
with turbulence. You know, there was a
period when you had the end of Breton
Woods going off the fixed exchange rate
to the dollar and the dollar to gold.
That change happened and the IMF adapted
and we are obviously now in a world with
big shifts in terms of how countries
work with each other. The IMF has always
functioned as trying to do the art of
the possible which is do the best you
can given the constraints and done it
very successfully. So if ever there was
a time for this institution,
it's super important now. It has the
ability to bring different countries
together around the table, good
discussions to happen on the in the
economy, on the outlook. Again, very
vital institution for the world.
>> Do you see a risk that it doesn't
survive though at a time when funding is
uh really in question with a lot of
major economies? We've seen China go it
alone. There have been questions about
the United States.
Firstly, the IMF funding structure
doesn't rely on any budgetary support
from any country. So, it's in a very
strong place uh because of that and
everything we've seen so far points to
all the members wanting the IMF to
continue functioning as it has. We work
very closely with the US administration
that that engagement is going extremely
well, but also the other 190 member
countries that we have. So as of now
lots of support of course the
environment has changed and the IMF is
going to adapt to it in this new
geopolitical environment that we have
but it has a lot of experience dealing
with these kinds of events. One thing
that you've done during your tenure at
the IMF is really study the change in
the geopolitical relationship. You've
talked a lot about that including the
reliance on the dollar and that's been a
point of big speculation of late in
markets as well. How much you actually
seeing worldwide nations try to shift to
alternatives from the green back? This
idea of insulating themselves from some
of the policy uncertainty that have made
a lot of headlines this year.
So we do see small shifts on the margin,
right? We are seeing countries
diversifying out of the US, but again on
the margin because they were so exposed
to the US, several of them are hedging
against dollar risk. We're seeing some
of that too. But I think the narrative
that somehow something has dramatically
changed about the behavior of the
dollar, it's really too early. People
point to the correlation between what's
happening with long-term bond yields and
the strength of the dollar and saying,
"Well, that's changed and therefore
something has changed dramatically."
That's not the case. If you take a long
enough period, the relationship between
the dollar and borrowing costs is, you
know, there's it can move in different
ways. So there's nothing unprecedented.
But of course, these are still early
days. we shall see where all of this
shifts in the global economic order are
headed and I think that's the source of
tremendous uncertainty that's still
weighing on the world economy. How much
has any perceived loss of Fed
independence changed that? And and we've
been talking about how there's this
dissonance between the commentary by a
lot of analysts and uh economists about
the fear of some sort of loss of
independence and then a lack of market
reaction that you would kind of expect
on the other side. Are you seeing any
shifts that maybe are less visible?
>> I think everybody agrees and this would
be markets and e economic professionals,
policy makers, everybody agrees that
central bank independence is critical.
Monetary policy independence is
critical. So if we are not seeing much
market reaction, it must be that people
think that well that independence is
still intact. that invent has been
critical to bring down inflation from
the high levels we saw post pandemic.
Inflation expectations were anchored
because of that inflation came down. So
I don't think there's any ifs and buts
about that. It must be that everybody
still believes that independence
especially operational independence in
terms of setting monetary policy rates
will be maintained.
>> So you reject the idea that the market's
just somehow ignoring a reality or
something like that. You think the
market's speaking and that we should
listen to the market?
No, I just think that everybody at this
point is functioning uh under the fog of
uncertainty. I mean, there's really a
lot of information thrown out there
uh separating the wheat from the shaft.
It's not that easy. And so, I I think
everybody is on wait and see mode. And
right now at least, of course, I think
that the markets are putting very very
low probability on any big negative
event that may be excessive. I think
that there is more to worry about than
what the markets are showing right now.
U but again we should have to wait and
see
>> and ga let's put some of these things
together if you look at developments in
the UK in France the inability to
address fiscal concerns and find that
additional fiscal space the latest
developments here in America as well are
you witnessing do you think we're
witnessing a convergence between the
kind of dynamics we typically see in EM
with DM and do you think those terms are
useful anymore in quite the same way
>> I think we have certainly moved away
from the case of advanced economies,
rich economies can keep increasing their
debt, which is what's projected to
happen. And there's not much to worry
about. I think we're certainly past
that. Major uh economies are beginning
to worry about what's happening to their
eels. You're seeing that it's a major
concern in France right now uh as we
speak. But even in the US, long-term
yields are basically back to pregfc
level. we are away from that world of
big global savings gap away from that
world of central banks buying large
amounts of government assets. So I think
it would be really uh you know
complacent for any government rich or
poor to say that well no our debt will
always be bought. And I think one point
I want to make is that we talk about
resilience for the global economy and
which has been really the you know the
positive of these last many years
despite all these shocks but we should
recognize that the reason we've seen
resilience is because we haven't had a
financial crisis despite the pandemic
despite wars despite geoeconomic
fragmentation despite Fed rates going up
very sharply we've not had a financial
crisis that doesn't mean that that will
never happen we have very high levels of
debt around the world I think bond
markets are are you know in a fragile
place. You have valuations in equity
markets that are skyhigh. So I would say
tread carefully because if you do have a
financial crisis we know those the
scarring that comes from that is
longlasting.
>> And when you talk about a financial
crisis some people were wondering what
could potentially trigger it. Are you
saying that the sovereign debt market of
developed markets is of the greatest
concern at this point?
I mean, usually when you get a financial
crisis, it's a combination of events
that can trigger it, right? And so, if
you have multiple markets that seem to
be in a vulnerable position, you could
end up with a negative event, right? And
so the bond markets what you're seeing
with very high levels of debt uh
fragility associated with that equity
valuations that are very high. Yes,
there's a promise that maybe AI will
truly transform the world but as we know
from the dotcom bust even a technology
like the internet that did transform the
world went through a boom bust cycle. So
that combination non-bank financial
institutions
they have we've never had a crisis. Well
they've been as large as they are right
now. the amount of corporate borrowing
that's happening with NBFIS much higher
than pre209.
So there's a lot that looks stretched at
this moment and at the same time I think
the world economy is gambling with all
kinds of new policies. So I would say
tread carefully, make sure that
financial supervision and regulation is
continued. See what needs to be done
with NBFIs. What's the appropriate level
of supervision and regulation that's
required over there? All of that is
going to be very important.
>> So you're leaving the IMF and you're
going back to Harvard, a university that
you've known uh very well. What are you
going to be doing there? And how
important is it for you to really get
this sense back in the economics
profession of pure research and uh true
rigor versus some of the politicization
that we've seen recently.
So I think the reason that the economics
profession has been able to contribute
so well over these last few years is
because in the face of unprecedented
shocks, you really need to go back to
some of your training to figure out how
you going to respond to a pandemic that
you haven't seen in a 100 years or war
in Europe. Right? So having that base of
knowledge is very important. But at the
same time I think the economics
profession has to recognize that there
is something of a trust deficit
especially with you know mainstream uh
economists and how do we get over that
there's broad consensus in the economics
profession that open trade central bank
independence super important those are
the crown jewels for good economic
policy and yet the policy direction is
away from that so I think there is
absolutely some bit of soulsearching
some bit of stepping back and asking
yourself how do to solve this trust
deficit. How do you make sure this in
this new world of communication that the
good ideas still come through?
>> Gita, you've always been generous with
your time. We appreciate it and we wish
you the best of luck. Thanks for sharing
your time with us this morning. Thank
you, Gita Gopanatha at the IMF. Your
final point so important. How do we
divorce partisan politics from policym?
And the answer of course is with great
difficulty. Well, and this is something
that's been a perennial issue, but it's
even more so at a time of increasing
polarization because ultimately, can't
you say that your vision for the economy
is intimately tied to your vision for
some sort of political system? I will
just say that second-guessing oneself
and sort of a rigorous debate is
appropriate. And I think that the
question is how do you get to that at a
point when a lot of people don't seem to
want that.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. Equities at all-time highs
at a close yesterday. futures just a
little bit softer with an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Back with us here is Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un
is visiting China for its military
parade next Wednesday. Other world
leaders including Russian President
Vladimir Putin will also be in
attendance. Kim's appearance will be his
first overseas trip since his 2023 talks
with Putin and is set to underscore the
three leaders growing relationships.
Meanwhile, shares of Dollar General are
rising 6 and a half% in the pre-market
after the discount retailer posted
stronger than expected sales and raised
its forecast. An increase in higher
income shoppers looking for deals has
helped Dollar General bring more traffic
to its stores even at as its core
customer base feels the squeeze. And
there's been another major shakeup
within the Trump administration. CDC
director Susan Manarez was fired just
weeks into her tenure. Her attorneys say
health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
targeted her because she refused to
quote rubber stamp unscientific reckless
directives. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yhara. Thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, bank stocks at all-time
highs.
>> We continue to like financials. you're
going to continue to see at these levels
of market um uh excitement and sentiment
capital markets recovering.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Chris M of Ocean First Financial. That
conversation up next
[Music]
equities on the S&P 500 a little bit
snoozy unchanged on the S&P 500 this
morning on the NASDAQ down about a tenth
of 1% outwound the Russell up 0.4%. But
check this out. Remember what we said
about Walmart? Good news at Walmart,
probably not good news for the broader
economy. Some debate about that, but
good news at Dollar General. That stock
is up by 6.4% in the pre-market. What
does that tell you about the broader
economy?
>> Yeah, alarms going off. Oh no, Dollar
General, people are looking for
discounts and trading to lowerc cost
places. You're seeing this also from uh
TJX and Raw Stores and all these
discount stores. But maybe you're seeing
it elsewhere, too. So maybe
>> so much conflicting information, isn't
it, Bremo? It's so confusing. I mean
right now I can't tell you I've got
answers which is the reason why I'm
going to take tomorrow off.
>> Likewise long weekend spend money help
the economy
>> bra. This is just the American way.
>> Right there with you. Spend spend spend.
Equity futures close to alltime highs
under spenders this morning. Bank stocks
at record highs.
We continue to like financials. People
have actually been better sellers of
banks. So I would say positioning today
is not really that full on the
institutional front. you're going to
continue to see at these levels of
market um uh excitement and sentiment
capital markets recovery. And lastly,
deregulation, right? This is an area of
the market that should benefit really
well from deregulation tailwinds.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
KPW Bank index hitting fresh record
highs. Chris Mah, the chairman and CEO
of Ocean First Financial, writing, "A
rate reduction in September may result
in a slightly steeper yield curve, which
will provide for margin expansion at
most banks over time." Chris joins us
now for more. Chris Kimmonic,
>> great to be with you.
>> Let's talk about your business and it's
good to see you, sir. Mainly focused on
the Northeast still all, right?
>> That's right.
>> How are corporate clients approaching
this moment? You
>> know, it's really interesting, John.
Earlier in the year, we had that
trepidation over what's happening with
tariffs and people in uncertainty about
tariffs and rates and and even the big
beautiful bill which resolved some tax
issues. Taxes were another big thing.
That's all kind of fading. We have
record pipelines. Customers are making
investments. They're making commitments.
We're seeing a lot um higher rate of
velocity than we did earlier in the year
which is which is nice to see.
>> Can you describe the kind of industries
the kind of businesses that you're
talking to right now and in what ways
they are re-engaging with the economy?
>> Yeah. So we cover a very wide swath. So
it's everything from shipping for
example we have a great shortage of
ships in the US especially Jones Act
ships. Um it is everything around data
centers which are not just chips right
it's the data center it's concrete it's
it's power generation it's all that
housing is another big one. And then
there's logistics around warehousing and
manufacturing. So people are adjusting
to the new kind of tariff regime and
making investment decisions now that are
long-term in nature.
>> How much of it is dependent on the idea
of lower rates going forward?
>> You know, some of it is Lisa, but not as
much as you'd think. Most commercial
borrowing happens at the short end of
the curve and whether it's a quarter
point or a half a point off of that uh
really wouldn't make a big difference in
your investment decision. I think the
bigger issues were tax policy, tariff
policy, the kind of long-term things
that will impact them.
>> A lot of what you mentioned were
industrial companies looking for
industrial projects. I just wonder what
about the consumerf facing companies,
especially as we see lowcost uh
retailers do better and some questions
around some of the other retailers. Is
there sort of a bifurcation between the
consumerf facing and the industrial?
>> That's right. And Lisa, as you point
out, it's the low end in the consumer is
a little bit more stressed than the high
end. And we've seen over the last 5
years, it's been an interesting trend.
More and more of US spending is in
higher income spenders. So although
there is weakness on the low end, that's
a smaller dollar fraction that it's
historically been. So uh we really need
to watch the high end. And if those
numbers start to pull back, you could
see, you know, real weakness in the
economy.
>> Are commercial clients out and hiring
again, though? Well, you know, Emry,
they're not hiring as much as as as you
might like to see them hire. So, we're
seeing hiring very slow. Uh we're not
seeing layoffs. We're not seeing
retrenchment. Uh we are starting to see
some of that AI impact where people are
saying, you know, I may not need to hire
that incremental person. Let me just see
if I can make it out. There's certain
segments like call center that uh
there's a that there's just a runoff and
you know, the AI's got so good today
that call centers are losing staff at a
pretty astounding rate. This is the
crazy thing and just to jump in, forgive
me. The crazy thing that I see at the
moment developing in this economy that
we could see all this investment that's
good for the GDP numbers but then bad
for the labor market and this tension
begin to build between what we
traditionally would say is good growth
GDPs up and a labor market that's just
not hiring in the same way. How is the
seauite going to navigate that moment?
because at some point they have to sit
there and think, well, someone's got to
buy the product and if they don't have a
job, what are they going to do?
>> That's right. You have to be watching
the data very closely. Uh the recent
weakening in employment data is
concerning. We're not seeing any of that
in spending patterns. We're not seeing
it in overdrafts. We're not seeing it in
kind of a FICO drift or lay payments or
anything like that. But that could turn
very quickly and some of this data uh
has the ability to be very volatile. So
if it turns quickly, you don't have a
lot of time to react to that. I get a
sense from you the hiring freeze or the
slowing to really go out into the market
and hire is because of AI, not because
of the uncertainty of what the policy
was going to be from Washington,
especially when it comes to tariff
rates.
>> Yeah, that's what we're seeing now. So
earlier in the year, Enry, we saw that
people were a little bit concerned about
what might be coming out in terms of
policy. That's kind of set aside now.
Now, it's really just a question about
do you believe you're going to need
these people long term? Because hires
are a long-term contract, right? It
doesn't matter. It's hard to unwind them
and and to get out.
>> Chris, it's good to see you. It always
is.
>> Do you want to find a word on the Fed?
You're feeling good about things, how
things are developing down there.
>> Well, you know what? I'm looking towards
September. I think it's time for a rate
cut and uh let's see. Let's see how that
all works out.
>> You thinking about 26? What does 26 look
like? New Fed chair chosen by the
president, confirmed by the Senate.
>> One of one of the things I love about
the Fed is that it is the only
decentralized central bank in the world.
And you know, we got 12 people on the
FOMC. We got all these reserve banks. It
is a big institution and uh I think
it'll weather this.
>> Chris, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks, John.
>> Thanks for catching up with us. Chris
Mother of Ocean First Financial,
diplomatic about the future of central
bank independence down in Washington,
DC.
>> You said, "How does 2026 look?" And my
mind just went wild. I mean, I'm
thinking of all the potential
possibilities and I think, you know,
that's why people aren't really going
there.
>> I can't even get to 2026 still. I know
the market is thinking about that re
acceleration and growth and all those
rate cuts, but
>> I can't get to October. I mean, let's
get through some of these next.
>> I don't know what's happened since
April.
Where did that sign go?
>> So, listen to us. It's
>> like September next week. My goodness.
Up next, Matt Stucky of Northwestern
Mutual, John Vin of Key Bank, Nita
Richardson of ADP, Jim Tney of Lance
Bernstein. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
[Music]
If I had to buy something, I would
rather buy stocks rather than buy bonds.
>> I think the investment for AI has to
take place now.
>> AI models are so powerful, driving so
much demand that we do expect them to
grow into next year.
>> What you see going forward though from
the four hyperscalers is clearly more
spending.
>> The AI race continues.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Starting with this name in the
pre-market, Nvidia with an underwhelming
forecast. That stock is down by just
1.2% and the broader market is still
positive on the S&P 500 even if it's a
bit softer on the NASDAQ. The Nasdaq 100
down by not even a tenth of 1%. The
outperformance is on a Russell up by 0.5
as this market looks for rate cuts.
Looking for rate cuts? Look for the
data. 29 minutes away. Jobless claims at
8:30 Eastern time. Then later, the
chairman of the Federal Reserve. I'm
joking. He might be. Governor Wallace
speaks at 6 p.m. Eastern time.
>> Yeah, you put those two ideas together.
really jobless claims going to have new
import as uh the Federal Reserve has
talked about a softening in the labor
market that has been actually more
marketked recently that they're trying
to address with rate cuts. Yes, Chris
Waller has already been on the tape
saying he wants a rate cut. He wanted
one actually uh at the most recent Fed
meeting. He will be cutting or he'll be
voting to vote cut I'm sure in
September. But what he says to how he
messages his caution going forward about
some sort of rate cutting path will
actually be market moving because of
what you just said because of the
expectation that his voice carries a bit
more clout.
>> He's setting the tone for this committee
right now. He's setting the tone for the
chairman of the Federal Reserve. You
said it Monday straight out of the gate.
That speech on Friday from Chairman Pal
in Jackson Hall, Wyoming sounded like a
speech written by Governor Waller.
>> It was like Governor Waller wrote the
speech for J. Pal and said this is what
you need to read in Jackson Hall.
Because JP pal four weeks prior wasn't
that worried about the labor market. He
wasn't that concerned. He was still
really concerned about potentially the
tariff impacts. Not only did we learn
that he has this bias at this moment
with this concerned labor market, but
also when it comes to tariffs, it's
going to be staggered in terms of when
the impact might hit. So basically
giving the market investors a chance to
just ignore it. That CPI prints we might
get hot, not hot, look through them.
Everyone on that committee right now
believes that we are restrictive. So
this move in September in many ways is
actually quite easy. Drop 25 basis
points. It gets harder and harder over
time because other people will start to
say actually I don't think we are
sufficiently restrictive anymore. That's
when the push back begins. So it's
September easy. From there it gets
harder into 26 and then you've got the
change in May. So there's like three
different periods here. You've got the
September decision. You've got the call
between September and May. And then
you've got life after chairman pal. Life
after Chairman Pal could look very
different.
>> Yeah. Big question mark I think for a
lot of people especially because we
don't know who is going to put in
hisstead. You talk about a phrase that
you hate. So I'm going to repeat it.
Adnauseium hawkish cut. And are we going
to see some sort of signaling going
forward that this is going to be not
necessarily one and done but one and
then just another one and then just sort
of wait and see. That's the key question
for anyone who replaces Fed Chair Jay
Powell. What is the reaction function if
the inflation data comes in hotter? Do
they stop cutting? Are they prepared to
hike rates or are they prepared to look
through that and maybe look to yield
curve control or beyond? That's when the
market might start to wake up and this
is the changes potentially we can expect
with monetary policy. We don't even know
if Chair Powell though will stick around
and basically hover around the Fed and
keep his seat as a governor. All of this
is also taking place while the president
is ousting a governor that as soon as
today we can get this injunction. We
don't even know if she's going to be
there in September to vote. So, even
though we're talking about changes in
monetary policy, tremendous amount of
changes when it comes to personnel.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Coming into Thursday,
record highs on the S&P 500. Futures
this morning almost totally unchanged.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Matt Stucky of Northwestern Mutual as
markets try to shake off Nvidia
earnings. John Vin of Key Bank Capital
Markets after raising his outlook on the
tech giant and Nita Richardson of ADP as
we break down the latest jobs data at
8:30 Eastern time. We begin this hour
with stock steady despite Nvidia shares
slipping post earnings. Matt Stoki, the
chief portfolio manager at Northwestern
Mutual, writes the following. Weakness
in the near-term reaction is likely to
be short-lived or shortlived as they
might say over at the Federal Reserve.
Have we cleared that up yet?
>> Well, look, shortived. When you say
shortlived, I think that the correct
academic interpretation is short-lived.
Okay,
>> which takes out a new connotation saying
I am an economist.
>> Forgive me for totally derailing this.
Let me start this again. Matt Suki, the
chief portfolio manager at Northwestern
Mutual, writes the following. Weakness
in the near-term reaction is likely to
be shortlived and more likely a function
of elevated expectations of bullish
positioning heading into the print.
Okay, Matt, welcome to the program, sir.
Why do you think the market is shaking
this off? Why is there some comfort with
that deceleration?
>> Well, I think um as you're looking at
the quarter was right down the middle of
the fairway u controlling what they
control outside of, you know, the H20
revenue with China. I think the bigger
picture to me I think is you look at
just the revisions higher uh in terms of
what the addressable market for for
Nvidia has been specifically I'm talking
about what hyperscalers are expected to
spend in 2026 just in the second quarter
alone those expectations have have risen
by another 19% on top of the 20% that we
saw in Q1 and so what we're seeing here
is just a continued rise in terms of the
demand profile for Nvidia and so it
comes down to are they are they able to
continue to build enough supply to to
meet demand. Um, and so a little bit of
an inline inline guidance to inline uh
prints as it relates to kind of more the
buy side of expectations to to me is is
just a a signal that um you know, Nvidia
continues to execute well in this
market.
>> So Matt, you still see this as a supply
constrained story potentially and not
necessarily a story of weaker demand in
the future?
>> I do. Um, I I think if you kind of go
around and listen to conference calls,
listen to what leaders in AI are are
talking about, everyone's still talking
about how they're short compute
capacity, how they could continue to
grow if they had more Nvidia chips to to
utilize in terms of their data centers.
Uh, and we expect that to continue to be
the case at least with the next few
quarters. Is it one or the other in
terms of an investment strategy that
you're either all in on big tech or
you're all in on small caps or and I'm
saying allin a little bit tongue and
cheek this idea that you're either
overweight uh big tech or you're bullish
on small caps and you got to pick one or
the other.
>> I'm not sure why you can't have both. Uh
to to hedge out a couple of different
outcomes as it relates to the economy.
Um, you know, one thing that we know in
terms of kind of how small caps can
perform is, you know, the the increase
in expectations that the Federal Reserve
will start to um ease policy again is
good for small caps. I think having some
exposure there makes a lot of sense.
However, we are a little bit later in an
economic cycle. And if you're looking
for companies that are higher quality in
terms of their their margin structure,
their balance sheet health, as well as
their perceived kind of more
insensitivity to the es and flows of the
economy, it's in mega cap tech. And so,
you can hedge both sides of that
distribution a little bit just in terms
of how stylistically you're building
your equity exposure. It's really
interesting that you point that out,
Matt, because we've been discussing that
all morning, the sort of uh
contradiction in the expectation for
rate cuts and the expectation for
ongoing resilience. Is that the way that
you're squaring that circle? The idea
that there is probably a bit of truth to
both. You're not sure which one is going
to rule out. It's just going to hedge at
this point.
>> I think it's a reflection of, you know,
the the tales of the distribution, I
think, are a little bit fatter than
maybe what consensus is is discussing
here. Um, you know, we we are still kind
of working through, you know, the the
the rise in in tariff levels and and if
you're looking at kind of where tariff
levels sit today, they're not fully
reflected yet in terms of kind of what
is stated on paper versus what actually
is being charged at the ports yet. And
so, as inventories are replenished, we
don't know the ultimate economic outcome
of that. Additionally, you know, the
state of the labor market, you know,
might firm up, it might not. Um, and so
having diversification to different
different styles of what uh what could
potentially perform well in a variety of
economic backdrops, I think makes sense
if you're an investor here.
>> Speaking of tariffs, and John's been
bringing this point up all week, we
could potentially get the AIPA court
decision. What do you think could happen
to equities if that's struck down? What
the president is doing in terms of using
AIPA to set tariff rates?
>> Well, markets tend to dislike
uncertainty in any form. Um I think if
you know the ruling comes back that you
know this is this is you know something
that's going to be uh discontinued on a
go forward basis there's still other
avenues for tariffs to come back into
the foray and I think that's probably
where markets will ultimately land in
terms of um you know just the ongoing
expectation that tariffs in some form
either through the or through another
kind of function are going to be higher
than where we started this year. uh
maybe not all the way up to to 18 19%.
But you know, still quite a bit elevated
versus the 2% plus that we were to start
2025.
>> When it comes to trade policy, China is
of course still in negotiations with the
United States. One of the biggest chips
the US is using is chips, Nvidia. Can we
just go back to that? How are you
actually thinking about what Nvidia
might be able to sell at some point into
Beijing? Does it concern you that some
of those profits they're going to have
to somehow get back to the US government
to bring down the deficit according to
the Treasury Secretary?
>> Yeah, I mean I I I think if you're an
investor in the video here, you kind of
think about it as, you know, upside
potential versus kind of base case part
of the story. Um, you know, in in terms
of what Jensen was talking about on the
call yesterday, they they view it as a
$50 billion revenue opportunity growing
50% per year. So it's a very large
market and so the ability to penetrate
just a fraction of that uh is upside in
my mind as it relates to Nvidia and just
to put a little firepoint on that you
know Nvidia got into 54 billion of of of
revenue in the third quarter uh with the
potential for another 5 billion plus of
of H20 revenue if they can start to get
some of these issues resolved in terms
of the ability to place product into
that market.
>> Matt Stucky appreciate catching up with
you Matt Stucky there of Northwestern
Mutual Wealth Management. Nvidia still
recovering down by only 1% at the
moment. Futures on the S&P just about
green. Dan Abbush on the program earlier
said we're going to finish green I think
on Nvidia by the end of today
>> based on the where it was uh last night
after earnings in uh after hours. I will
just say this is basically green. I mean
can we just say that right now down 1%
is basically green after 35% gain so
far. Well, it's you know changing to
green.
>> Okay, I can go with that if you want. I
mean just is that what you want me to
do? No, I actually just think it's
really remarkable how far this stock has
come, how high expectations were, and
the fact that we're seeing such a muted
reaction is considered a win and
certainly something that people are
taking and saying this isn't something
to spook you
>> because inline typically would be
considered a massive miss over Nvidia.
>> Well, especially given the fact that
expectations are so high and people
always look for massive beats. The fact
that they shrug this off indicates
people are somewhat comfortable.
>> Stock is down by 1% in the pre-market.
I'm with you. We're on the same page.
It's basically green.
>> Futures basically green. Unchanged but
basically green. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. As you all said, Nvidia
trimming its losses. Shares are down
just 1% in the pre-market. Now the
chipmaker gave a tepid revenue forecast
for the current period signaling that
growth is decelerating after a
staggering 2-year boom in a AI spending.
Nvidia says it expects sales to be
roughly $54 billion in the third quarter
in line with the average estimate on
Wall Street. Meanwhile, the Mexican
government is planning to increase
tariffs on China fulfilling a
long-standing demand from President
Trump. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the tariff hikes are expected
for imports including cars and textiles
as Mexico aims to shelter domestic
manufacturers from subsidized Chinese
competition. And in sports, the fourth
day of the US Open wrapping up yesterday
with Arena Sabalanka, Ben Shelton, and
Carlos Alcarez all cruising into the
third round in straight sets. While
Novak Djokovic battled back to win in
fourth later today, there will be some
more big names on the court including
Yanik Center, Koko Golf, and Naomi
Osaka. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhierra
later this hour. Up next on the program,
the morning calls as analysts are
staying bullish on Nvidia. Plus, John
Vin of Key Bank Capital after raising
his outlook on the tech giant from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The godfather of AI, Jensen, Nvidia,
continue to dominate this. And I think
this is just a further validation. Tech
stocks go higher. The boom's just
starting. I mean, if you look at these
numbers, especially when you factor in
what China is going to be, I mean, you
know, Jensen talked about 50 billion,
50% type growth number. This just shows
the next stage of adoption is actually
just starting. I think, look, I think
this stock is green today.
Not far off this morning. That was Dan
Ies of Wed Bush there on Nvidia. Guess
what, Dan? Still bullish. The broader
market equity futures on the S&P 500.
Just about unchanged. Brammo calls this
green
>> on the NASDAQ 100.
>> Overweight.
>> Negative by a tenth of 1%.
Outperformance on a Russell. There's
some green.
>> Thank you.
>> Up by a third of 1% so far this morning.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls with one stock in
focus, Nvidia. First up, JP Morgan
raising its price target on the stock
from 170 to 215, noting multiple levers
at play to drive upside. Your second
call from Truist raising its price
target on the stock to 228, focusing on
the company's resilient long-term
outlook. And your third and final call
from City, raising its price target on
Nvidia to 210, citing continued data
center sales upside with or without
China. Staying with the stock, CEO
Jensen Wang telling investors that
opportunities in AI are quote immense
even after the company forecast
decelerating growth. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandep, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Do we need China? Do we need China?
Based on some of the commentary, maybe
we don't.
>> And actually he gave one uh anecdote
yesterday on hypers scale the four
hypers scale capex combined capex going
to $600 billion per year. So right now
based on our calculations we are close
to $400 billion dollars uh per year from
the four uh US hyperscalers. He said
it's going to 600 billion 50% growth and
it's going to sustain. So uh think of
you know Nvidia's exposure to the
hyperscalers. The top two hyperscalers
for them are Microsoft and Meta. They
make up almost 40% of uh the revenue uh
Nvidia's revenue. and he's saying that's
going to grow 50%. So to my mind, this
is like suggesting Microsoft's capex is
going to grow at least 50% next year. So
will Meta, Amazon and Alphabet are
smaller customers for uh Nvidia, but
clearly this is big. I mean, if he's
suggesting Capex is going to grow 50%.
It's going to have a lot of
repercussions for the rest of the
market.
>> I'm old enough to remember when people
cared about concentration risk, the idea
that the entire Nvidia revenue depended
on the hyperscalers. Is that no longer a
concern? it sort of doesn't need China
just as long as Microsoft and Google
keep spending so much
>> better and and so just the two of them
in fact you know the four hyperscalers I
said 600 billion just the two of them
and by that math actually that 40% will
be a higher number because Google has
their own TPUs Amazon has their own
chips they're investing in so to my mind
the concentration will even increase
further and so we talk about pull
forward all day long to my mind this is
the one risk the biggest risk everything
else looked great the commentary was
great there are a lot of use cases but
then when two of your customers make up
you know such a big portion of your
revenue you have to ask yourself what if
meta decides to go with its own chips or
Microsoft what risk is
>> there I mean let's talk about next year
what if Mark Zuckerberg suddenly decides
it's the year of discipline you know
what is the risk of that happening in
>> and look if meta's capex is going up 50%
I bet you it's going to be a drag on a
Meta stock. Nobody is factoring in. Yes,
they guided to over 100 billion but
nobody is factoring in 50% capex
increase for Meta and Microsoft. So this
clearly was news to me last night and
there's no doubt that they're executing
very well. Exchina
>> Mandy stay close. I want to bring in
John Vin the equity research analyst at
Key Bank Capital Markets. He raised this
price target on Nvidia to 230 from 215
and keeps an overweight rating on the
stock. John joins us now. John, welcome
to the program. Let's just start on
China. You heard what Mandep had to say
just moments ago. Do you think we are
overstating the importance of the story
in China?
>> No, I don't think we we are you know um
you know China I think in terms of the
outcome and the outlook last night there
was a little bit of consternation where
they guide with China without China.
Obviously we felt they were going to
exclude it just given the crossurrens
that are going down there. So I think
the the best possible outcome occurred
last night where they guided to a clean
name number excluding China which could
be another two to five billion dollars
in revenues and numbers are still going
up. So I think longer term um China is
an important part of the the AI pie for
Nvidia but I think near to medium term
you know the setup looks very clean
because potentially it could be a source
of upside in in the October quarter.
John, I'm sure you were listening to
what Mandep had to say, and I'm still
just thinking about, okay, maybe China
doesn't matter as much, at least uh for
future growth, but that means that some
of these hyperscalers matter all the
more and this dependence on Mark
Zuckerberg's uh wallet is is concerning
for some people. Is that concerning for
you?
>> Um not in the longer term. You know,
certainly could there be a hiccup where
um as you had stated, maybe there could
be a moment of discipline in the near to
medium-term. Maybe he tightens up his
capex budget for next year. But the AI
capex spending is driving an
acceleration and growth for these major
hyperscalers and they're in an arms race
right now and they know that if they let
up um you know that could be a risk to
their long-term business model. There
was a a time when people were talking
about the need for broadening out for
other companies outside of the
hyperscalers, outside of the tech space
entirely to adopt uh artificial
intelligence and really gravitate
towards some of Nvidia's products. Are
you saying that we don't need to see
that that ultimately the hyperscalers
will be the intermediaries for Nvidia
will be the providers of cloud and some
of these systems and that we won't see a
broadening out in terms of clientele for
Nvidia?
No. Um I do think that you do need some
longerterm diversifications and I think
you do need some other drivers of AI
capex growth, right? The next potential
legs are going to be sovereign, right?
You know, other countries looking at
their AI strategies. It's kind of a
small but fastly growing number. And
then enterprises, right? you know, we're
enterprises right now are in kind of a
tough environment, but I think every
single major enterprise uh in the world
and Fortune 500 company is is evaluating
and trying to figure out what their AI
strategy is. And uh and then lastly, you
know, the other emerging driver of
growth is potentially robotics, right?
Just with the labor shortages globally,
um we think these are also uh going to
be emerging as diversifying drivers of
growth for Nvidia.
>> Well, you mentioned sovereigns. I
remember when Jensen Wang was in the
Gulf alongside the president, very
excited about getting into that market.
What's the latest on that story besides
just the show of force he had with the
administration?
>> I think the administration is still
trying to figure out exactly what their
sovereign strategy is, right? Obviously,
you know, we we showed what our, you
know, cards were in respect to China. I
don't know if that's the right strategy.
I think the right strategy for countries
like China and the rest of the world is
you want them to use our technology. You
want the US AI platform to be the
platform of choice because if you take
the policy of just restricting uh
exports to to countries that you're
concerned about, you know, competitive
risk, uh these countries are ultimately
going to figure out their own strategy
or rely on other sources of of supply
potentially from our competitors. Given
that thinking, do you think this
government will allow the higherend
chips to go to Beijing?
>> Not in the near term. Right. I think
it's pretty clear where we're drawing
the line. We're drawing the line at
H20s. Uh we believe that Nvidia is also
developing on working on another
compliance skew that doesn't use high
bandwidth memory. So I think in the in
the near term, uh I don't think we're
going to allow higher performance GPUs
to China.
>> John, appreciate your time. Thanks for
breaking it down. jump in there of key
bank the latest on Nvidia that stock is
negative by about 1% so far this morning
mandep I just want to finish with you on
China and this revenue share with the
white house I guess what you say when
the cameras are rolling in the white
house is different to what you say on an
earnings call because I didn't get a
clear read on what's happening with that
revenue whatsoever yesterday did you did
not look uh they're saying the
administration will have to give a clear
directive in terms of what they are
allowed to sell and also the revenue
sharing the 15%. So from that
perspective look the guide is obviously
exchina and they are doing very well
when it comes to managing expectations
but there is no doubt when you look at
the large language model companies if
your customers are able to train your
models on someone else's chip why would
they come back to Nvidia and the you
know the delay that's going on 2 3/4
delay those companies are not stopping
their training process or their
inferencing process they have to find
compute and so I'm curious curious to
know how are the Chinese large language
model companies right now managing their
compute what what sort of chips are they
leaning in on and uh to my mind the more
the delay it'll be harder for Nvidia to
capture that
>> we've introduced a lot of political risk
into this name this year alone
>> yeah and this is really the reason why
you heard Jensen Wang say we just have
to keep advocating that the sensible the
sensibility of and the importance of
American tech companies to be able to
lead and win the race they're making a
very political argument What did uh what
did we hear from Dan Ives? 10%
politician and 90% CEO seems to be what
we uh are witnessing here too.
>> Feels that way big time. Maybe the other
way around.
I think it's the other way around.
>> 90% politician at the moment.
>> Up next on the program, we've got some
economic data for you. City saying this
payroll growth averaging just 35k a
month will keep Fed officials focused on
downside risk to employment, continuing
jobless claims in focus. Nita Richardson
of ADP on the other side.
[Music]
Definitely about 60 minutes away. The
data is about 25 seconds away. So, let's
focus on the data and start with the
scores. Equity futures on the S&P 500
negative by not even a tenth of 1% down
about a tenth on the NASDAQ 100 positive
on the Russell up a third of 1% on the
small caps getting very excited about
rate cuts in our future that's going to
depend on the economic data ahead of the
data bond yields are a little bit lower
at the long end down by two basis points
490 on 30s and yields are higher at the
front end by two basis points to about
363 let's get you that economic data
let's cross over to Mike McKe good
morning
Good morning, John. We're waiting for
the jobless claims numbers to do drop.
So, I'll tell you that GDP in the first
revision rises to 3.3%
from the prior forecast of uh prior
number of 3%. Now, here are claims 229
significantly lower than last week's 234
and uh below the 230 that was forecast,
although that's pretty close. 1,954,000
continuing claims up from uh or down a
little bit actually from 1,961.
Uh the previous number was 1,972.
So a little bit of a pullback there in
the number of people who hadn't gotten
jobs. So jobless claims, labor market
looks status quo at the present time.
Going back to GDP, at this point, what
we're looking at is a 1.6% 6% increase
in personal consumption uh consumer
spending. That's up from 1.4% in the
initial report. Uh the price index is on
a quarterly basis unchanged uh 2.5%
on a core basis and 2% on a
year-over-year basis. I'll look uh
deeper into these numbers while you tell
us if anybody is paying attention on
Wall Street.
>> Mike, thank you sir. No shocker here. No
drama. So claims look rock solid and in
the bond market yields are a little bit
higher at the front end of the curve and
in the FX market the dollars just a
little bit stronger to discuss the
numbers and then we'll come back to Mike
McKe and get some details in just a
moment. We'd like to bring in Nita
Richardson the chief economist over at
ADP. Nita, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> If you took some time off, not that you
ever do, but if you did and you didn't
know any of the economic data and I just
showed you jobless claims, would you
have a decent read on the labor market
right now?
>> Yes, I would think it was pretty strong.
But if I unpacked it a little bit, and I
haven't taken a lot of time off
actually, so I've been unpacking quite a
bit. I I actually identify four
crosswalks between macro trends that are
big in the making and also the very
granular real-time data that we're
seeing. Then the first one is the
consumer um that consumer spending,
which you're seeing picked up in the GDP
numbers, has been a resilient driver of
the labor market as well. where you see
strength in the consumer, you're seeing
strength in the jobs market, namely
leisure and hospitality, and there's
some trade and transportation that has
been strong. But then you see this other
macro theme of uncertainty, and I think
that's depressing some job gains in
professional services. So there's a lot
going on between the big picture macro
trends and the smaller granular realtime
hiring that businesses are doing right
now. How much is there stealth firing or
sort of attrition plans that are in
place that don't make it some of the
overall numbers as necessarily job
losses in the traditional way?
>> You know, this is a super and I'm glad
you asked me this question because it's
a super complex question. Um because
what we're seeing on the part of the
employer may not be demand driven. First
of all, we had this great big res uh
great uh resignation in 2022 and young
people are supposed to turn over.
They're supposed to leave these jobs.
They're staying put. And so there's a
little bit less hiring because people
are staying put. And then you have the
effect of AI. There's been new research
from Stanford that was out using uh ADP
data. It was a paper was released
yesterday saying that in AI exposed
fields like software developers or
customer service reps you are seeing an
impact in early career. So you can't
look at the macro. You have to dig
beneath the surface to see all the
things that are different about this
labor market making it very challenging
to predict its next moves. But do you
get a sense uh of whether it is
weakening in a way that would justify
some sort of Fed move or that would
require some sort of policy adjustment
or is it just transforming? Is it just a
structural shift that has nothing to do
with policy? Frankly, it has to do
everything with technology.
>> Yes. And yes, and that's what makes it
so hard. Yes, it is weakening. We are
seeing a slowdown in hiring momentum.
It's a slowdown from the beginning of
the year. It's a slowdown from last
year. Some of that is the what uh chair
pal said in his speech that we're seeing
lower supply, lower demand, but still
some equilibrium that gives us a pretty
good unemployment rate. But yes, it is
structural. We're seeing uh aging
demographics really cut into labor and
these nent technologies affecting early
career in real time. So yes and yes,
it's both. And that's why you can't
predict it. You're going to see
companies be hesitant and slow down.
They're hiring because of macro trends
that have nothing to do with their
customer base and then they're going to
become back in the market and hire when
they need to. And so we won't know if a
a one-mon slowdown is indicative of a
really uh weakening labor market or just
some hesitancy. So we have to look at a
couple more months to get that trend
right.
>> The Ocean First Financial CEO was just
on. He was saying with his commercial
clients, they're not hiring as much
because of AI. You were at Jackson Hole.
The theme was labor in transition. Yet
you said no one presented a paper on
artificial intelligence. Is the Fed too
late to really understanding what's
going on?
>> You know, so new and it's a great
question. These themes, these papers in
in general, I mean, economists have a
lot of good attributes. Being on track
all the time in the micro data is not
always one of them. So some of them I
know it's a big reveal, but so these
papers were really important. They had
big themes like fertility and population
growth and mobility.
>> But what's happening right in front of
them right now?
>> But AI is harder because you have to
have granular data. And that's why this
paper that I mentioned from Stanford
looking at ADP's millions of job titles.
You actually see the effect AI is
happening. So for employers there are
some big investments in AI. Some of that
investment will augment career. So for
later career more tenured workers AI is
seen to boost productivity and those
investments are being made by companies
but for jobs that are easily automated
you might see uh a transition of those
workers and you're already seeing that
transition happening. I think it's going
to be short-term. I think labor shifts
to where the puck is heading when it
comes to productivity. But we're in the
midst of that transformation right now
and yes it's not really being picked up
in economic models. If you are just
tuning in again, welcome to the program.
Just moments ago, some economic data on
GDP and on jobless claims. Mike McKe
standing by who has a little bit more.
Mike, you've had a second look. What do
you see?
>> Well, we can see what's under the hood
here. And the basic reason we saw a rise
in GDP in the first revision for the
second quarter is personal consumption
rose to 1.6% from 1.4% and business
investment significantly increased.
Non-residential fixed investment up
5.7%. It was 1.9% in the original print.
Exports were down 1.3% a little bit less
than they were in the initial print and
imports were down 29.8% basically
unchanged in terms of overall trade
numbers. But we did see that shift from
the first quarter to second quarter
where imports were huge in the first
quarter and dropped off negative
actually uh in the second quarter. And
then finally, we had na the federal
government down four spending down 4.7%
and non-defense spending down 12.5%. So
a big drop there in what the government
was spending. And the bottom line, and
Nila will appreciate this, I guess, as
one of those economists who looks at the
micro and macro numbers, is that real
final sales uh to domestic purchasers
were up 1.6%
uh over 1.1% in the first initial print.
Overall, real final sales 6.8%
from 6.3%.
So, we have a little bit stronger GDP
than we thought we had in the second
quarter. Of course, now it's all about
quarter three. Mike McKe, just before
you go, it feels like in April there was
some paralysis in the economy. A lot of
people held back trying to work out what
was happening with policy. Are you
getting a read, a clean read on anything
to do with just things bouncing back
that maybe we will see that
reaceleration as the year progresses and
people re-engage with the economy? I
think we're too far away from the second
quarter numbers to say that they have
this revision has much bearing on what's
going to happen. The good news was that
businesses were spending in the second
quarter and that's been what everybody's
watching. Were they going to hold off or
not? Consumer spending continues at a
slower pace than it had, but they're
still hanging in there. So where do we
go from here? Everybody's been waiting
to see what effect the tariffs would
have and this is about the time when
we're going to start seeing that.
>> Mike McKe, appreciate it, Mike. Thank
you, sir, as always. Mike, on the data
there, Nila's still with us. Nila, we
wanted a word from you on the Federal
Reserve. September in some ways feels
like an easy call now. They're going to
cut rates. How would you set things up
for people for September and beyond into
26 of the Federal Reserve? I think it's
really helpful to look at how the Fed
has moved uh historically, which is in
small bites moderated over a long time
frame. Um that may not be the way that
they can act now because there's so many
moving parts of this economy. Whether
you think that tariffs are a one-time
price increase or have ripple effects,
um the the fact is the the lags between
monetary policy and the lags between
what's going on in the economy, they
might miss each other. And so I expect
um a Fed that will be constantly data
driven and may have to pause to
recalibrate where the economy is moving.
I don't think it's going to be clear to
them even when they start acting. And
this is something we were talking about
earlier on this morning that after
September, what was the phrase? Our
favorite phrase,
>> hawkish cut.
>> Hawkish cut.
>> Yep. That's exactly what people are
expecting.
>> Many people believe that you get that
first cut and it's the start of
something deeper. Other people believe
that in September they might cut
interest rates, but then open the door
to a much more nuanced conversation
about the rest of the year.
>> Yeah. the idea of a dual mandate in
conflict and how that's going to cause
them to be a lot more cautious and the
fact that we haven't really seen the
inflationary ramifications and just how
this Fed will handle and potentially
look through or not some of the
inflation related uh to tariffs and
beyond.
>> Nita, it's good to see you. Always is.
Thanks for dropping by Nita Richard
there of ADP. Some breaking news just
moments ago. It comes from Fox Business.
Allow me to share it with you that the
CEO Jensen Wang tells them he's in talks
with the president and the
administration about selling his better
Blackwell AI chip to China and he's also
willing to give the US government a cut
of those sales. Plus, he wants US tech
of course to be like the US dollar, the
global standard. But the more important
factor here is the Blackwell chip. Now,
what isn't clear here is whether he's
talking about the less advanced
Blackwell chip but the more advanced H20
or whether he's actually talking about
the tiptop chip that comes from this
company or not.
>> Yeah, I think that's a nuance we need to
understand from either Nvidia or really
the Trump administration. What export
license are they willing to give? The
president had signaled he is willing to
make a deal when it comes to Blackwell.
He's basically saying, you know, we'll
take 30 50% of it in order to do this.
Another interventionist approach from
this White House and a real pay-to-play
kind of opportunity for Nvidia and
likely given how the president explained
the 15 20% deal that was cut for those
H20s. It looks like this is something
Nvidia would be game for even though on
their call the CFO says it might open
them up to litigation. The more time
Jensen Wang spends with President Trump,
the more the shares are going to rally.
And I think that that really speaks to
the political moment we're in and the
idea that as long as he can get his
story out that the more that the US
technology is the standard, that's going
to be the better for the United States,
the more Nvidia is going to really
benefit.
>> We need some more clarity on this story.
Let's put it that way. But I can tell
you the stock's recovering. We're down
now just a tenth of 1% in the pre-arket.
>> Green 100%.
>> Stay tuned. Let's keep an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Back with us, here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. White House trade adviser
Peter Navaro is pressuring India to halt
its purchases of Russian oil. Navaro
here on Bloomberg accused New Delhi of
funding the Kremlin's campaign in
Ukraine and calling the conflict Mod's
war. The US doubled tariffs on India to
50% this week in an effort to secure
concessions on trade and pressure
Russia. Meanwhile, Brazilian President
Lula Dilva's popularity is waning this
month, suggesting the momentum he gained
from his trade fight with President
Trump may be over. Lula's approval fell
to 48%, down two points from July. His
disapproval rating rose to 51%.
And shares of Victoria's Secret are
rising 5.5% in the pre-market. The
company raised its outlook after strong
quarterly sales, a sign the new CEO's
turnaround plan is taking hold. The
company expects fullear revenue to reach
up to $6.4 billion which includes an
estimated tariff impact of about $100
million. That is double the prior
projection projection. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara. Thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, Jim Turny of Alliance Bernstein is
market shakeoff Nvidia earnings. And
Nvidia shakes off Nvidia earnings too
apparently. Plus, Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers. Bath and Body Works
warning of a multi-million dollar tariff
hit. That stock is down by 3.6%. 6%
[Music]
the Nvidia report kind of like threaded
the needle, right? It was strong enough
that you didn't get kind of a
liquidation in those long positions, but
it wasn't so strong that it disrupted
the rotation that's been going on for
the last couple weeks. The market right
now is to some degree in one big trade,
right? And that trade is long growth,
long large cap, long the AI fanatic,
right? And everything else has sort of
been ignored to some degree.
>> Lisa, as always, ahead of it. It was
green before it was green.
>> It was basically green and now it's
getting close. So, there we go.
>> Getting closer and closer to turning
positive. That was Stuart Kaiser of
City. The broader market's doing okay.
Equity futures just about positive on
the S&P 500. As we count you down to the
opening bell, that opening bell is about
42 minutes away. With your morning
movers is Danny Ber. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Even more retailers reporting
earnings this morning. Some really tough
set of numbers. Hormel Foods, they make
all of the deli meats you find in
grocery stores. A miss and a cut to
their guidance. The CEO saying that the
issue is higher prices. Really feeling
the strain of that in the current
quarter. and they expect it to bleed
into the next. They also talked about
trying to raise some of their prices in
order to offset some of the
profitability hit, those shares down
over 10 and a half percent. Bed Bath and
Body Works, Bath & Body Works rather,
those shares down 5.2%. For them, it was
their first miss since 2020. It was a
tariff impact that they are citing. $40
million will be the hit to them for
tariffs, contrasting with some of the
other retailers we've been hearing from.
And we also heard from Urban Outfitters,
another retailer with a poor set of
numbers. 1.7% is the decline that we're
seeing for them pre-p profofit. It was
an outlook that m missed expectations in
a downgrade to their gross margins. They
say the tariff hit will be 75 basis
points. Previously, they saw 20 at
issue. And the new thing to incorporate
for them was the 50% tariff from India.
They say that they're going to try to
negotiate with vendors, rework some of
their shipping routes, and do what they
called gentle price raises to try to
offset that. John
>> Danny, thank you. That's a new one.
Gentle price raises
>> over at that retailer. Gentle.
>> The way that people are going to message
this is just incredible.
>> First move, though. You saw it, right?
First move. Negotiate with suppliers.
This is why it takes time.
>> Well, you I'm looking right now at uh
Bath & Body Works, expecting to see this
hit. And yet they say that they've been
actively reshoring to the United States
and over 80% of their products are made
in the United States. So it just raises
this question of how you identify made
in the United States, how they identify
the tariff pit and how much gentle
pricing increases we're going to see.
>> Also potentially maybe just consumers
are not interested in your products
anymore. But a really easy way to guide
that is just oh we're dealing with
tariffs and all that uncertainty.
>> Let's stay with the markets. We're
joined now by Jim Turney, the chief
investment officer of Concentrated US
Growth Alliance Bernstein. Jim Turney
joins us now for more. Jim, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you, sir. We've got
comfortable with these Nvidia earnings
after about 12 hours and change. How
comfortable should we be with these
numbers this morning? I think we should
be very comfortable when you look at the
numbers. The revenues were essentially
in line for the quarter. Next quarter
met expectations excluding China and
China could be some upside. And
importantly on the expense side, things
are well controlled. We're going to see
margin increases as we go into the third
quarter. So all in very positive.
>> Does this remind you of Apple in the
days where people would line up to bet
against this stock and they were always
wrong and Apple kept going higher? I
feel like that's starting to happen with
Nvidia now that people are just they've
missed out on this massive boom over the
last few years and a lot of people are
lining up to say this is it. It's over.
Does it feel the same way?
>> It does. And one of the things that I
think people are missing here a little
bit is the absolute growth percentages.
We're talking 50% plus growth. Those are
spectacular numbers. And if it's 45 and
a quarter, that's okay, too. Uh and you
look at what Jensen laid out in terms of
three or four trillion dollars of
spending out 5 years from now versus
where we are today, those are massive
growth rates, and we're not seeing that
anywhere in the US economy or the global
economy.
>> But the the issue isn't whether or not
it's growing quickly. The issue is that
it's been priced in and then some and
it's a $4.4 trillion stock. The issue is
where valuations have gone to and people
have already gotten ahead of that. Does
it worry you that the majority of that
growth is set to come from just a small
handful of names that could turn off the
spigot if things uh warranted it?
>> I think there are two issues there. One
is the valuation. And when you look at
Nvidia off of $7 of earnings in calendar
26, it's about 25 or 26 times earnings.
I don't consider that expensive for a
company that's growing that fast. So,
I'm not worried about Nvidia's uh
valuation. If you look at what's driving
the market and is it a very small group
of companies, absolutely. That's very
concerning because if for some reason
capex spending doesn't hit that three or
four trillion dollars that is talked
about, we may have a little bit of an
air pocket. But when you look at the
arms race that's going on right now
within AI spending, there is no end in
sight. Well, it's international and this
is a reason why it's sort of how much is
Jensen Huang a diplomat and how much is
he a CEO because ultimately it depends
on the sovereign buying of some of these
chips as well as China the sort of
elephant in the room and how much they
will be able to adopt US technology. How
much do you get comfort and want to buy
press by as soon as you see Jensen Wang
visiting the president again?
>> I don't think I get caught up in that as
much as some others might. uh I think
when I look at the drivers of demand
over time there are multiple buyers and
it's not just the hyperscalers and not
just the sovereigns it is going to
spread out to enterprise over time and
we haven't even talked about robots
which robotics is is a next leg of
growth that people shouldn't sleep on
>> when do you think you're going to see a
catalyst where the risk is no longer
worth taking when it comes to AI
>> you'd have to see companies missing
earnings materially and we didn't see
that where you saw the biggest beat was
from the tech the tech complex coming
out of the second quarter. So the
earnings are very strong.
>> So just go back to Lisa's point. When it
comes to China, you think it's all noise
when it comes to how basically what
Jensen Wang does in China and Nvidia's
growth there is really dependent on what
kind of policy comes out of the White
House.
>> I don't think it's noise and that's a
real part of their business. So no one
wants to see that go away. But at the
same time, there are other drivers that
are filling in that divot and and to be
able to cover that two to five billion
dollar divot is pretty spectacular.
>> And Jim, can we talk about the potential
big picture here, the potential for some
political constraints in the years to
come, the price of electricity for
consumers, the prospect of job losses,
the kind of push back we could see from
politicians at both the state, local,
and federal level going forward from
here? How are you thinking about those
potential developments in the years to
come? Certainly a lot of different
issues there. Power is a constraint and
when you look at Nvidia's revenues and
sales, uh they probably could have done
better if there was more power widely
available in the US. In terms of will
the hyperscalers be stealing that power
from the US consumer? That obviously
can't happen and we need to solve that
problem. Uh when you look at job loss,
uh I think that's a reality. We've had
creative destruction in our country for
decades and and you look at Microsoft.
Microsoft is a great example of a
company that is holding headcount down
by using technology and therefore
margins keep rising. I love that. I
mean, that's exciting when you can see a
company do that.
>> I'm pulling you away from your seat just
a little bit, but I just wonder how
tolerant these politicians will be of
creative destruction in 25 and beyond
given developments politically down in
Washington and beyond.
>> I think the goal is to bring more
manufacturing back to the US and fill
that hole. But you would have made the
exact same argument a hundred years ago
with farmers and and the farming
population is pretty darn small today
and people have found other jobs. So so
something to worry about but but I think
solvable.
>> I'm always worried. I hope we can solve
it. Anyway, Jim, it's good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you, sir.
Jim Turney there of Alliance Bernstein.
I know you're thinking about a similar
issue as well. The price of electricity
keep going back to it. It's getting
higher and higher. It's getting more and
more expensive. So that caters to the
middle and older demographics and the
younger demographics are going to get
hit by uh some of the job losses that
you've seen in terms of artificial
intelligence entry level for software
producers. I'll just give you this
anecdote. I've got two sons. They're
three years apart. My older one worried
about getting a job. My younger one
worried about killer robots. It kind of
sums up where we're at.
>> Well, also politically, it already is
infiltrating Washington DC. The the
concern about this. It's kind of weird
when you have Barack Obama and Steve
Bannon lining up when it comes to AI and
the concern that it could do in terms of
destruction on white collar jobs.
>> What did you say when he started to
worry about killer robots?
>> Well, he then started showing me
pictures. He's like, "They've built the
torso to the killer robot." And I'm
like, "Get off TikTok. Just stop.
Whatever your eyes seeing this stuff.
>> It's it's YouTube reals." I don't know.
It's social media. See,
>> be careful. That's the Chinese
trying to get the kids to fear AI so
that we lose the race in the AI race
here in the United States. Is that
what's happening? I think he's worried
about a killer robot. I don't think it
has to do with AI race. I think that
that is actually a real one. Yeah, but
maybe you think so. Yes,
>> but this is this is YouTube real. Okay,
that's gonna be I don't even know.
>> You're doing great.
>> Just I'm counting down the seconds.
>> I know you are. Got to go.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Brian Nick of New
Edge Wealth, Kelly Kaminsky of Alpha
Simplex, Dana Tely of Taly Advisory
Group, Zack Griffith of Credit Sites
from New York City. I'm joking. I was
joking. Or was I? Sort of. Or was kind
of a little bit. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance. You're watching Blindberg
TV.
[Music]